                                                                                       Initiating Event Hypotheses



8.9           OTHER COLLAPSE-RELATED POSSIBILITIES

8.9.1         Fuel Oil Fires

There were several emergency generator installations located on several different floors of WTC 7 which
were supplied by either day tanks or pressurized loop fuel delivery systems. NIST investigated the
possibility that rupture of one of the fuel lines might have provided a continuous supply of sufficient fuel
to affect a critical column or floor system. Section 3.4.2 describes the fuel systems and their status on
September 11, 2001. Section 9.2 describes a set of hypothetical, extreme diesel fuel fire scenarios and
their potential consequences. Simulations showed that pool fires associated with ruptured diesel fuel lines
(a) would have raised the temperatures near the generators to the point where the generators would have
failed, cutting off power to the fuel pumps, (b) could not be sustained long enough or generated too little
heat to raise the temperatures of the steel and concrete structure to the point of significant loss of strength
or stiffness, and/or (c) would have exhausted smoke from the exhaust louvers, in conflict with the
photographic evidence which showed none.

NIST also found that the day tanks on Floors 5, 7, and 9 that supplied the emergency generators on those
floors did not contain enough fuel to be significant contributors to the combustible load on the fire floors,
and it was unlikely that the tanks could have been be re-supplied because of multiple safeguards in the
fuel delivery system. Further, none of the day tanks were located near the location of critical Column 79.

Thus, it was concluded that the hypothetical fuel oil fires on the 5th floor, or hypothetical fires on Floors 5,
7, and 9 involving day tanks, did not contribute to the collapse of WTC 7.

8.9.2         Hypothetical Blast Events

To determine whether explosives could have been used to cause the collapse of WTC 7, a hypothetical
blast event was considered. This work is reported in detail in Appendix D and is summarized here.

Scenarios of a hypothetical blast event that could have occurred in WTC 7 on September 11, 2001, were
assessed, including blast location, size, and timing. Identification and analysis of hypothetical blast
scenarios was conducted in three phases, with the results from each phase being used as input to the next
phase. The three phases were:

      •   Phase I: Identify hypothetical blast scenarios to initiate structural collapse.

      •   Phase II: Assess the blast wave propagation inside the building and the corresponding response of
          the WTC 7 windows.

      •   Phase III: Assess the approximate distance from the building that the blast would have been
          audible in an urban setting.

In Phase I, hypothetical blast scenarios to initiate structural collapse were identified. A scenario with the
minimum amount of required explosive was identified, which included cutting of columns sections as part
of the preparations. Other scenarios were considered, but the amount of explosive material would have
been larger, with the amount depending on the type and degree of column preparations conducted.



NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation                                                                            355
