                                                                                     Initiating Event Hypotheses



In summary, the minimum charge (lower bound) required to fail a critical column (i.e., Column 79) would
have produced a pressure wave that would have broken windows on the north and east faces of the
building near Column 79. The visual evidence did not show such a breakage pattern on any floor of
WTC 7 as late as about 4:00 p.m. or above the 25th floor at the time of the building collapse initiation.
Views of the northeast corner at the time of the collapse were obstructed by other buildings. The other
scenarios considered would have required much more explosive material, which would have generated
much more window breakage and a higher sound level, or were generally considered infeasible to carry
out without detection.

Preparations for a blast scenario would have been almost impossible to carry out on any floor in the
building without detection. While the selected blast scenario considered one column, demolition with
explosive charges usually requires the preparation of many columns in a building. Preparations would
have included removal of column enclosures or walls, use of weld torches to cut column sections,
installation of charges, and placement of wires for detonation. Occupants, support staff, and visitors
would have noticed evidence of such activities, particularly since they likely would have occurred around
more than one column. It is highly doubtful that such activities would have not been detected.

Furthermore, for a shaped charge with an explosive weight equivalent to or higher than 9 lb (detonated
in a single delay), the noise level at a distance of ½ mile would have been on the order of 130 dB to
140 dB,4,5 roughly equivalent to that of a thunderclap directly overhead or an adjacent jet engine. The
sound blast in an urban setting would have propagated by being reflected and channeled down streets with
minimum attenuation. The hard building exteriors would have acted as nearly perfect reflectors, with little
to no absorption. The sound would have been attenuated behind buildings, but it would also generate
multiple echoes. This could have extended the time period over which the sound could possibly have had
an additive effect if multiple in-phase reflections met.4

People on the street would have heard 9 lb of RDX go off a mile away in air (and even further away if the
wind were blowing in their direction).5 There were no witness reports of such a loud noise, nor was such
a noise heard on audio tracks of video tapes that recorded the WTC 7 collapse. Thus, from this study,
NIST concluded that blast events could not have occurred and found no evidence of any blast events.

8.9.3           Fires within the Con Edison Substation

NIST considered the possibility of fire in the Con Edison Substation (Chapter 2). Eyewitness accounts
and off-site monitoring of the substation operation and alarm signals provided the basis for the
assessment. Details are provided in Appendix A.

Con Edison employees were present at the substation when WTC 1 was impacted by the aircraft, and
additional personnel were summoned to assist in dealing with the emergency. No fire or significant
physical damage was noted prior to the time the substation building was evacuated at about 10:20 a.m.
NIST found no evidence that significant physical damage to the Con Edison portion of WTC 7 occurred
due to the collapse of WTC 1 at 10:29 a.m.



4
    Email correspondence from Applied Research Associates to NIST, 31 July 2008.
5
    Email correspondence from Loizeaux Group International to NIST, 5 August 2008.



NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation                                                                          357
