114 
 
potentially creating conditions for disproportionate collapse at later stages. Hence , a safer 
structural design against fires warrants member -level fire protection for primary load transfer 
components such as core columns , whereas components such as primary beams should be 
approached from a global safety point of view. The two design approaches -preventing local 
collapse through structural continuity or implementing structural isolation by segmenting to 
prevent disproportionate global collapse need further enquiry in the case of fire safety design . 
Table 10 highlights the key insights derived from the robustness study conducted in this chapter. 
The study highlights the importance of using a performance -based design to increase  the 
robustness of the structure. Based on the current study, it can be said  that prescriptive design 
can help prevent progressive collapse resulting from core column failure only. The other 
inherent collapse-inducing mechanisms depend highly on the member -to-member interaction 
under elevated temperature conditions. During a fire, factors like load ratios, mode of load 
carrying mechanism (shifting from bending to catenary tension), lateral support, etc., drastically 
change over short durations, as observed in the case of the Plasco tower. However, considerable 
research remains to be done, and structural engineers must also be made aware of the risks 
associated with neglecting global-level fire safety in structural design.  
       
Components 
under 
multiple 
floor fire 
Global 
collapse 
Partial 
collapse 
Need 
specific 
local 
resistance 
Presence of 
alternative load paths 
in the event of 
component failure 
Core column Highly likely - Yes No 
Primary 
beam 
It is likely 
under 
multiple-
floor fire 
spread. 
Likely due to 
connection 
failures 
No Yes 
Secondary 
main 
columns 
Unlikely 
It is less 
likely if 
adjacent 
columns 
withstand the 
load 
redistribution 
No Yes 
 
Table 10 Critical observations derived from the robustness study. 