91 
 
 
Examining each component individually with the help of the table above provides basic 
information about the potential vulnerabilities and strengths of the tower when exposed to fire. 
Due to the age of the building and limited available information, it is impossible to evaluate the 
composite action that occurs between the concrete slab and the top chords of the truss members. 
Therefore, the full composite action cannot be expected during the fire accident. In later parts 
of the thesis, two models were utilised to simulate the structural response: one considering full 
composite action and another assuming no composite action. In the reports published by 
Tehran’s city council, authors Shakib H et al. (2017)  and Behnam (2019)  mentioned the 
presence of a nominal single layer of steel reinforcement. 
 
Another factor of structural design that negatively affects the structural performance 
under fires is the length of unsupported spans. The Plasco tower had trusses of span length 
10.6m present in the corner areas. Theoretical analyses by Flint et al. (2006) & Li et al. (2021) 
showed that long spans can be more sensitive to fire than conventional short spans. A steel 
beam can yield in axial compression at temperatures less than 200 °C if it is restrained at both 
ends from expanding ( Lamont, Lane, Jowsey, et al. (2006) ). This is not necessarily a 
vulnerability if composite action is available through the shear connection between beams and 
floors, which is doubtful in the case of the Plasco tower. The thin, unprotected floor beams can 
be added to the list of vulnerabilities of the Plasco tower against fires. The presence of a false 
ceiling unintentionally protected the floor trusses, but ironically, the false ceiling is believed to 
have facilitated the fire's propagation ( Khan, Khan, et al. (2022)  & Khan (2022a)). The floor 
plan of the tower can be seen as a group of 9 individual segments of floors with aspect ratios 
ranging from 1.01 to 1.38 , which is good enough to produce double curvature displacement. 
Several studies reviewed by J. Jiang et al. (2022) , showed that the tensile membrane action 
produced in a two -way slab is stronger than in a one -way slab of the same thickness and 
reinforcement.  
 
In the following sections of this chapter, the load distribution pattern in the tower will 
be studied by subjecting key components to elevated temperatures. To carry out this exercise , 
an FE model representing the top six stories of the tower was generated in OpenSees.  