77 
 
Chapter 3:  Robustness Analysis of Plasco Tower 
under Fire Conditions 
 
This chapter aims  to examine the susceptibility of the structure of the Plasco tower 
towards progressive/disproportionate collapse when subjected to thermal loads of varying 
intensities and locations. During the fire incident in the Plasco tower, multiple local fires 
occurred, causing significant local damage to the structure ( Govt. of Iran (2017) ). In this 
chapter, the response of the Plasco tower to localised fire affecting critical load -bearing 
elements is studied. The fire load scenarios employed in this study are not intended to accurately 
represent the thermal load of actual fire event(s). It is envisaged that the analysis is carried out 
by applying thermal loads to the floor surface areas and/or critical structural elements that could 
have triggered the collapse. Since the fire affected the stories between the 11th and 17th floors, 
a six-storey composite structure is modelled using the OpenSees finite element software. For 
modelling the steel beam and slab, displacementBeamColumnThermal and 
ShellNLDKGQThermal element classes (for beam and shell elements) of the OpenSees fire 
module are used (A. Usmani et al. (2012)). Steel thermal degradation properties recommended 
by Eurocode 1 were used for the study. Concrete material was modelled as layered plane stress 
concrete with Concrete Damage Plasticity (CDP) material model, and on the other hand, rebar 
material was modelled as a biaxial plane-stress steel layer using the J2 plasticity material model 
(L. Jiang et al. (2021a)). 
 
This chapter evaluates the ratios of column loads under ambient conditions and aims to 
review the structural design from a fire safety perspective. In the first case, a fire load was 
applied on one of the core columns of the tower, and the impact caused by the load shedding is 
discussed. Likewise, the study examines the mechanisms of load redistribution in other critical 
components, such as primary beams and secondary main columns. Through the analysis of the 
Plasco tower under diverse fire load scenarios, this study investigates the possible collapse 
mechanisms. It identifies  the inherent strengths and weaknesses of the structural design. The 
heat transfer analysis is performed to obtain the temperature history, assuming the temperature-