112 
 
 
In a different scenario representing the fire condition, as shown in Figure 3.17, the fire 
load was applied across multiple floors, impacting the compartments at the edges. Temperature 
load was not applied to the edge beams as masonry was present  along the periphery. As 
anticipated, the simulation outcome from this analysis showed significant displacement in the 
slabs of all three-floor segments. Figure 3.18(a) shows the buckled secondary main columns 
and the secondary columns across multiple floors. These failed columns account for not more 
than 10% of the total gravity load of the structure. The deformation observed is of a magnitude 
of 520mm in the centre of the edge bay floor slab segment; see Figure 3.18. In reality, catenary 
deformations exert substantial forces on the connections, increasing the likelihood of partial 
floor collapse. It should be noted that connections were not modelled as the focus of the study 
was to look for the load redistribution patterns and collapse mechanisms that can lead to global 
or partial floor collapses.  The load shed by the buckled columns was transferred to the other 
secondary columns on the same plane as  the edge frame. It can be seen in Figure 3.18(b) that 
the contour plot shows the thickness of line elements proportioned to the axial forces the 
columns are experiencing. The ground reactions of the secondary columns adjacent to the 
buckled secondary main columns are 2.72 times their initial value. Therefore, there is a 
possibility of a progressive collapse of the columns in the periphery where load shedding and 
load redistribution happen along the edge,  leading to an inward collapse of the structure. Or 
suppose lateral propagation of failure of buckling did not take place. In that case,  the structure 
will achieve a temporary stable condition where edge beams and corner columns resist the 
inward pull forces caused by the catenary action of trusses, as depicted in Figure 3.19. The 
overloaded adjacent columns did not show buckling as lateral support was present from colder 
parts of the structure. In a real scenario, under partial collapse, a lack of lateral support for the 
columns can be detrimental to the stability of the structure.  
 
 