101 
 
As a result of the failed SE core column, the load on the adjacent columns increased by 
varying proportions. The adjacent SW core column received a higher redistributed load than 
the NE core column. It can be seen in Figure 3.9(c) that the SW core column received 35% of 
the additional load while the NE core column received only 4 -5% of the additional load with 
respect to the loads they were under during the service state. The aspect ratio of the floor 
segment in the core area can explain this disproportiona te distribution of load transfer . In the 
case of the Plasco tower, the distance between the SE and NE core columns was 10.5m, while 
the distance between the SE and SW columns was 8m. When a column supporting a square -
shaped floor fails, an even redistribution of loads to the neighbouring columns is expected. 
Similar failures due to uneven load redistribution were observed in the progressive collapse 
analysis studies of composite steel frames by J. Jiang & Li (2017).  The graph depicted in  
Figure 3.9(c) shows that the reaction forces in the SE column rise during the initial 
phase of fire due to restricted thermal expansion. Consequently, the ground reaction in the SW 
core column decreases by 10% compared to its initial value. However, the reaction forces in the 
other adjacent columns mostly remain unchanged during thi s period. At a later stage, once the 
gas temperatures exceed 550 °C, the ground reaction in the SE core column begins to decrease. 
The findings indicate that the secondary columns located around the edges did not undergo a 
noteworthy rise in the ground reaction forces. Hence , in a  fire affecting a core column, the 
outward redistribution of load is nearly even over the columns along the edges, see  
Figure 3.9(b). The plot shows that the main secondary columns – SES and SEE received 
additional redistributed loads of 5-10% of their initial magnitudes.  
 
Realistically, between the core columns, there was masonry present till the false ceiling 
level. This results in a potential exposure of only 400mm length of steel columns to extremely 
high temperatures. Some evidence shows that only a tiny portion of the wall comprised of 
masonry was present; the rest of the height was provided with thin partition boards , as seen in 
the Figure 3.8If masonry protected a significant portion of columns, then high section 
temperatures are not likely. However, a considerable length of core columns can be exposed to 
severe temperatures when masonry walls are destroyed due to collapse debris.  