79 
 
the response of the Plasco tower to localized fire affecting critical load -bearing elements is 
studied. The fire load scenarios employed in this study are not intended to accurately represent 
the thermal load of actual fire event(s). It is envisaged that the analysis is carried out by applying 
thermal loads to the floor surface areas and/or critical structural elements that could have 
triggered the collapse.  
 
3.2. Structural integrity of the Plasco tower 
In the case of the WTC collapse, it was observed that during the initial phase of the fire, 
long floor beams expanded and pushed the external columns outwards. After the floor beams 
weakened, resulting in catenary action, the external columns were pulled inwards , leading to 
the progressive collapse (A. S. Usmani et al. (2003) & Lange et al. (2012b)). The collapse took 
place progressively, with one failing component leading to the failure of other key members. 
Once the external columns buckled inward, the failure was uncontrollable due to the instability 
induced in the load transfer mechanism.  
In the case of the Plasco tower incident, the structure withstood the initial structural 
damage caused by the fire for at least 30 minutes (Behnam (2019) & Ahmadi et al. (2020)). The 
researcher observed that the connection failure of the floor system in the Northwest corner of 
the tower caused the failure of the 11th and 12th floors of the tower, in terms of falling freely 
onto the lower floors. The impact caused by the falling floors caused further damage to the 
lower floors locally. Nevertheless, the damage did not impact the vertical load-carrying 
members of the structure, see  Figure 3.1. The failure of connections was the main reason for 
the spread of damage in the structure horizontally. In the Plasco tower, core columns, secondary 
main columns and primary beams form the major load transfer system of the tower. The four 
core columns form the vertical spine of the building by carrying nearly half of the total gravity 
load. The truss , Vierendeel , and edge beams form the secondary load transfer system. The 
stability and resilience of the structure, even after the multiple floor failures in the NW corner, 
proves that key structural components of the building were unaffected by the accidental 
consequence of the NW compartment fire.  