85 
 
 
The characterisation of structural failures depends on the nomenclature and definitions 
adopted for describing progressive and disproportionate collapses.  Kiakojouri et al. (2021)  
identified and discussed the absence of a clear distinction between the nomenclature currently 
used for describing the structural collapses. He analysed the works of many researchers and the 
definitions of progressive/disproportionate collapse made by them. Kiakojouri et al.  
summarizes the list of definitions provided by the authors and building codes for progressive 
collapse and identifies three key terms – initial damage, collapse propagation and final collapse. 
According to the Kiakojouri et al. , “Three characteristics must be available to consider a 
structural failure as a progressive collapse: first, the initial failure must be local; second, the 
failure must spread to other members; and  third, the final collapse state has to be 
disproportionate to the initial failure”. In the case of the Plasco tower, the local failure of the 
floor slabs in the NW corner propagated the damage to the other areas but did not result in a 
disproportionate collapse. In later stages, i.e., when a key component was affected due to a local 
failure, the damage propagated and resulted in a disproportionate final collapse.  
 
This study aims  to identify inherent weaknesses and vulnerabilities of the structural 
design adopted by the designers in the case of the Plasco tower. The robustness of the structure 
will be assessed by subjecting component(s) of the primary and secondary load transfer system 
of the Plasco tower to a simplistic thermal loading based on the ISO 834 curve. The extent of 
the damage is calculated, and the likelihood of propagating the damage and collapse is studied 
in the following sections.   
 
3.2.2. Review of the structural arrangement  
Robust structural design is crucial for the life safety of firefighters and building 
occupants, and protecting assets and property. Hence , ensuring structural robustness while 
designing structures and assessing the robustness of old structures should be given importance. 
The Plasco tower was an old building designed without considering fire safety and structural 
performance in case of fire. The structure had no passive fire protection, and at the time of the 
fire accident, the active fire protection system failed due to a lack of maintenance. Shakib et al. 