115 
 
3.6. Conclusions 
This chapter focused on understanding the behaviour of the Plasco tower structure when 
key components or areas are subjected to different fire loads. The collapse of the tower was 
thoroughly examined to gain insights into the specific collapse mechanisms and to categorise 
the damage/collapses at various locations.   
 
(a) Four kinds of local collapse mechanisms are identified based on the analysis and 
available evidence - pancake, domino, section and instability-type collapse mechanisms. 
The global collapse of the tower began with the pancake-style collapse mechanism in 
the NW corner of the tower,  i.e., 11th and 12th floor ceilings. The dynamic effects of 
these two floors caused the failure of multiple floors below them. The damage sustained 
by the tower was not critical to global stability. As the fire continued to spread, the 
damage and subsequent collapses of the components near the South and SW corner 
involved sectional failure, instability, and possibly domino-type collapses.  
(b) A review of the structural configuration of the Plasco tower was carried out. Design 
aspects beneficial to the tower in resisting collapse , such as structural continuity and 
tensile membrane action, were discussed. The near-square shape of the floor slabs in the 
Plasco Tower likely enhanced their capacity for tensile membrane action . Because 
tensile membrane action is more efficient when the slabs undergo double curvature 
rather than a single curvature deformation.  Given the limited information available 
about the shear studs and the age of the composite floor slabs, it is not possible to 
confidently assume the full composite action during the fire. While the floor slabs 
maintain structural continuity, uncertainties surrounding the shear studs prevent a 
definitive conclusion about their effectiveness under fire conditions. 
(c) The secondary main column near the SE corner underwent splitting failure before the 
collapse. Visual observations indicated that the welds used in the steel sections failed, 
resulting in noticeable separation. This introduces uncertainty when modelling and 
evaluating the structural integrity of the buildings, particularly due to the use  of built-
up sections and the inclusion of baton members in constructing steel elements. These 
factors contribute to the complexity of accurately modelling the structures and assessing 
their resilience against fire loads. 