78 
 
time variation per the ISO 834 fire curve. However, it should be noted that the application of 
thermal load in the time domain is solely for practical convenience. 
 
3.1. Motivation and objective of the study 
Accidents offer structural engineers an opportunity to learn and improve. The Broadgate 
Phase 8 fire, which occurred in 1999 in a modern steel fast-track building, which incorporated 
steel deck/concrete floor construction ( Newman (1991) ). There was no collapse , but the 
examination of damage provided an opportunity to consider the validity of design codes 
developed from small-scale fire test data. This eventually led BRE and erstwhile British Steel 
to carry out six full-scale fire tests on an 8 -storey steel frame composite structure at the BRE 
Large Building Test Facility at Cardington, Bedfordshire, UK ( Kirby (2000)). The collapse of 
the WTC Buildings in 2001 following a terrorist attack also offered valuable lessons with regard 
to adequate preparedness for fire safety and structural stability in fire s. Initial attempts to 
analyse the WTC collapse indicated that although there had been considerable progress, there 
were too many counterintuitive and subtle phenomena in the thermo -mechanical response of 
large frame structures to fires , which were not well understood, even by experts in the 
profession. Therefore, multiple explanations for the WTC collapse surfaced. A. S. Usmani et 
al. (2003) & Lange et al. (2012a) at the University of Edinburg found that the WTC towers had 
an unusual vulnerability to large fires. The team was able to produce a credible scenario of 
collapse, which did not depend upon any gross assumptions about the fire or failure of 
connections or even structural damage. A clean stability failure mechanism was evident from a 
simple computational analysis. Not only this, but the analysis was also entirely consistent with 
the fundamental principles developed previously during the simulation of Cardington Tests led 
by the PI. Greater understanding and knowledge of structural frame performance in fire can 
only be gained by rigorous analysis, just as it is customary to determine the response of 
structures to earthquake or wind loading. 
The objective of this study is to examine the susceptibility of the structure of the Plasco 
tower towards progressive/disproportionate collapse when subjected to thermal loads of varying 
intensities and locations. During the fire incident in the Plasco tow er, multiple local fires 
occurred causing significant local damage to the structure (Govt. of Iran (2017)). In this study, 