116 
 
(d) The Plasco tower's structure was designed with columns only along the perimeter and 
core, lacking any intermediate columns that would have provided alternative load paths. 
The long-span truss beams of 10.7m in length tend to cause higher restraint forces on 
the perimeter columns than shorter-span truss beams. Long-span beams are sensitive to 
fire and experience compressive failures at relatively lower temperatures of 200 °C. The 
buckling of bottom truss chords was also confirmed by inspecting the debris from the 
Plasco tower.  
(e) The gravity analysis showed that the four core columns resist 44% of the weight of the 
tower, while the eight secondary main columns resist 19% of the total weight. The 
remaining 30 secondary columns resist 37% of the total weight. The primary means of 
transferring gravity loads to the perimeter columns is through the primary beams. The 
research findings highlight that the key elements of the structural system of the tower 
are core columns, secondary main columns, and primary beams. Consequently, the 
overall stability of the structure is heavily reliant on these three components. 
(f) The robustness analysis involving the thermal load application on core columns revealed 
that load redistribution from any failed core column to the adjacent core columns is not 
uniform. The core column (SW in the study) on the shorter end of the primary be am 
received a higher proportion of the redistributed load. The results showed that the 
ground reaction force in the SW core column increased by 35% of its initial value. In 
the case of sudden buckling failure, the load increase due to dynamic effects can be 
higher than the value predicted. Though there was a presence of masonry near and 
around the core columns, evidence showed that the masonry did not protect the full 
length of the columns. Although the core columns are less prone to experiencing high 
temperatures, it is important to highlight that the design relying on a smaller number of 
core columns requires careful consideration from a fire safety perspective. 
(g) The responsibility for transferring 63% of the total weight to the peripheral columns lies 
with the composite floor system, primarily supported by the primary beams. The 
robustness studies involving the primary beams showed that failure of one single 
primary beam (away from the core) can cause failure of 20-25% of the floor area (2 slab 
segments). If two primary beams on one face are affected, the failure of 33% of the floor 
area (3 slab segments) can be expected. The failure of floor segments may not cause  