99 
 
Various researchers like J. Jiang & Li (2017), Sun et al. (2012) and Shepherd & Burgess 
(2011), studied the effect of load ratios on the failure time of steel columns. It was understood 
from the existing literature that ambient state load ratios were a key factor in assessing its 
behaviour during fire loads. In a building fire, the affected columns  expand axially, push the 
floors upward, buckle and then freely hang between the floors. The buckling behaviour of 
columns during heating is highly unstable and dynamic in nature. Hence , the load shedding 
caused by the failing column can cause dynamic load s on the surrounding columns. In such 
cases, safe load transfer can be expected if the surrounding columns have a lower load ratio. If 
load ratios are higher, the failing column can initiate the buckling of surrounding columns. In 
the case of the Plasco tower, core columns at a load ratio of 0.34 (conservative estimation) are 
loaded to an extent that their reserve capacity cannot be relied on in case of extreme fire events, 
even if the fire spread is not large and is limited to local zones.  
 
The values of load ratios of the secondary main, secondary, and corner columns at 
ground level are 0.51, 0.43 and 0.1.  Hence, the columns of the Plasco tower, with DL+1.5LL 
load combination, were well within safe load ratios in the service state condition. The load ratios 
in the columns at higher levels are lower due to the reduced dead  weight; the load ratios of the 
11th floor are given in Table 8.  
 
Column Load ratio.  
(Level: Ground floor) 
Load ratio. 
(Level: 10th floor) 
Core column 0.84 0.34 
Secondary main column 0.53 0.19 
Secondary 0.43 0.21 
Corner 0.1 <0.5 
 
Table 8 Maximum load ratios of different columns of the Plasco tower at the ground and 
11th-floor level.  
While calculating the load ratios, it was assumed that the effective cross-section of the 
is equal to the full cross-section area. The actual load ratios in the column might be higher than 