 
WTC 7 Visual Evidence 
NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation 
 
277
identifying the original location of the northeast edge in the frame.  Onto each subsequent image, the 
same lines have been added that trace the evolving location of the northeast edge of the building.  In the 
first five frames the original line and the edge of WTC 7 at the later time coincide within the resolution of 
the image, showing that the visible northeast edge had not moved perpendicular to a line running between 
the camera position and the edge of the building.  During this time, WTC 7 had begun to collapse, and the 
roofline had already descended about 10 stories.  Thus, well into the building collapse, the northeast 
corner of the building fell either straight down, directly toward, or directly away from the video camera.  
In the next frame at 10.6 s following initial movement of the east penthouse, the top of the northeast 
corner of the building has tilted sharply to the west, and it appears that the building has begun to break 
apart.  This motion continued to grow until the northeast edge became hidden by the rising dust cloud. 
 
Figure 5–203.  Cropped frames from the Camera 2 video clip in Figure 5–185 and 
the Camera 3 video clip in Figure 5–186, showing the north face of WTC 7 
9.0 s ± 0.1 s after the east penthouse began to move downward. 
The intensities have been adjusted. 
The Camera 3 video provided additional information about the movement of the building edges due to its 
view of the full width of WTC 7 and a more oblique viewing angle.  The image differencing technique 
used to visualize the movement of WTC 7 in Section 5.7.3 was again applied.  Figure 5–205 shows 
several frames from the difference video at the indicated times following initiation of downward 
movement of the east penthouse.  White lines denoting both the original and displaced edges of the 
building are drawn on the image to emphasize the relative displacement and rotation.  In this sequence of 
images, both the northeast and northwest edges began to tilt toward the north shortly after the building 
began to move downward.  The northeast edge tilt continued to increase until the edge was obscured by 
dust and smoke.  The northwest edge initially tilted in a similar manner, but then settled back to its 
original line and fell nearly vertically (or directly toward or away from the camera). 
 
 
