Chapter 3



American Express occupied the southwest sector of the 13th floor.2 The space was mainly filled with
cubicles. There was also a small bank somewhere on the east part of the south face.6 NIST was unable to
obtain any other information regarding the occupancy of the east side of Floor 13.

The layouts of the 11th and 12th floors were similar to each other7, and a single floor plan was used for the
fire simulations (Figure 3–7). The layouts of both floors were quite different from those of the other
focus floors. The space was principally subdivided into walled offices, with a few cubicles. There were
single-person offices all around the perimeter. Interior to these was a full corridor, with a second rectangle
of solo offices opening outward onto the corridor. There was a second corridor inside these offices and
outside the building core. Generally, one could not see outside the building from either corridor. The
principal exception was near the 12th floor library on the west side of the building. There was frosted
glass on some of the office walls.




                      NIST drawing derived from material provided by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

                                        Figure 3–7. Schematic of Floor 12.

There was a convenience stairway between the 11th and 12th floors, located near the southwest corner.
The stairway was open, with no walls or doors.

The furniture was mostly modular, generally consisting of decorative laminate over particle board. There
were some older solid wood pieces scattered among the managers' offices. The combustible load in the
offices was described as high by interviewed SEC managers. There was no clean desk policy. Open case
files were left on surfaces. There were many bookcases, file cabinets, and cartons of files in the offices.

Occupants of the south side offices reported that a large number of windows were broken by the
percussion and debris from the aircraft impact into WTC 1.6

The 13th floor was less heavily subdivided (Figure 3–8). Along the central section of the north perimeter
was a corridor, with a hearing room and multiple testimony rooms facing it. There were additional

7
    Floor plans provided by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.



56                                                                            NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation
