                                                                                     WTC 7 Visual Evidence



On September 11, 2001 the wind in New York City was primarily from true north. Rehm et al. (2001)
used wind records recorded by aircraft in the New York City area on the morning of September 11, 2001
to estimate that the wind direction was from the north (within a few degrees) and had a speed between
11 mph and 22 mph at the heights (roughly 1,000 ft) where the aircraft impacted the towers. Similar
information is not available for times following the collapses of the towers. However, the direction of the
smoke plumes from fires burning on and near the WTC site indicates that the wind blew from roughly the
same direction throughout the afternoon.

Wind behavior is strongly influenced by the presence of upstream structures. On September 11, the wind
was coming from across the Hudson River. (See Figure 5–3.) Figure 5–6 shows a view of the WTC site
shot from a helicopter around 10:21 a.m. from roughly the same direction that the wind was blowing. At
this time WTC 2 had already collapsed and WTC 1 continued to burn. WTC 7 is indicated by an arrow.
The lower portions of WTC 7 are at least partially shielded from the wind by buildings located between
WTC 7 and the Hudson shoreline, while upper portions were directly exposed.




                                                               Figure 5–6. Photograph of the WTC
                                                               site taken around 10:21 a.m. from
                                                               roughly the same direction as the
                                                               wind was blowing on September 11.
                                                               The image has been cropped and
                                                               enhanced.




As described in NIST NCSTAR 1-5A, the wind had a strong influence on smoke and dust flows around
the towers. The wind also affected the behavior of flames and smoke flow from the towers. Similar
effects will be described below for WTC 7.




NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation                                                                       97
