-3-
The lease agreement, consisting of 111 pages plus several additional schedules and 
exhibits, is a complex document which detailed the relationship between petitioner, as the lessee, 
and the Port Authority, as the lessor, in relevant part, as follows: 
Section 4. Development and Construction of Tower Building 
4.1 The Lessee at its cost and expense shall design, construct and equip on 
the premises . . . a Tower Building containing not less than one million rentable 
square feet of first-class office space. The Lessee shall expend for the initial cost 
of construction of the Tower Building . . . not less than [$100,000,000.00]. 
4.9 Prior to entering into any Tower Building construction contract or 
contract for the installation of fixtures or equipment therein the Lessee shall 
submit to the Port Authority for its approval the name of the contractor2 to whom 
it proposes to award any such contract, and if requested, the form of contract to be 
used by the Lessee . . . . The Port Authority shall have the right to disapprove any 
proposed contractor if in its opinion reasonably exercised the contractor or its 
proposed subcontractors lack the reputation, experience, personnel or resources to 
properly construct the Tower Building . . . . The Port Authority shall have no 
liability or obligation in connection with any proposed or actual construction or 
installation contract entered into or proposed by the Lessee, whether or not 
approved by the Port Authority and the Lessee hereby releases and discharges the 
Port Authority from liability or claim of damage for loss arising or alleged to arise 
out of the performance or nonperformance of construction work pursuant to 
contracts proposed or entered into between the Lessee and its contractor. Any 
warranties or guarantees contained in any contract entered into by the Lessee for 
performance of construction or installation work shall be for the benefit of the 
Port Authority as well as the Lessee and the contracts shall so provide. 
4.10 All utilities and services (including but not limited to water, sewerage, 
electricity and steam) required for the performance of the construction work and 
the operation of the Tower Building shall be obtained by the Lessee . . . And the 
Port Authority shall not be required to bring any of the foregoing utilities or 
services within or without the premises. 
4.12 Legal title to the Tower Building construction, including 
improvements, appurtenances and fixtures shall vest in the Port Authority 
immediately upon erection or affixation of all or any part on or to the premises. 
2  Petitioner retained Tishman Construction as general contractor for the construction of the office tower. 
