-30-
would be exempt from the imposition of sales tax. The Administrative Law Judge concluded, 
however, that petitioner and its related entity, Silverstein Properties, Inc., did not make their 
purchases of the goods and services at issue as an agent of the Port Authority. The 
Administrative Law Judge based his conclusion on the terms of petitioner’s lease, which 
provided that petitioner, not the Port Authority, was the sole party financially liable for 
construction, alteration, maintenance and repair of 7 World Trade Center. The Administrative 
Law Judge did not find any language in the lease that created an agency relationship between 
the Port Authority and petitioner. The Administrative Law Judge also found that none of the 
hundreds of invoices or checks introduced by petitioner at the hearing indicated that petitioner 
or Silverstein Properties, Inc. acted as agent for the Port Authority in purchasing the goods and 
services at issue or in making payment for them. The Administrative Law Judge held that no 
provision in the Tax Law justified expanding the exemption to a long-term lessee of a tax 
exempt entity that owns the underlying real property. 
The Administrative Law Judge held that the bulk of petitioner’s refund claim relating to 
purchases from Ogden Allied Services, Inc. of so-called “general cleaning services” were 
taxable as the servicing of real property under Tax Law § 1105(c)(5) since they “relate to 
keeping real property in a condition of fitness . . . ” (20 NYCRR 527.7[a][1]). The 
Administrative Law Judge noted that a contractor’s purchase of tangible personal property used 
in erecting or in maintaining, servicing or repairing real property is exempt so long as the 
tangible personal property becomes an integral component part of the real property. However, 
the Administrative Law Judge found that this exemption could not be expanded to exempt the 
purchase of services or supplies used in performing such services, which clearly related to 
