-4-
4.16 All construction and installation work which the Lessee shall do . . . 
shall be done strictly in accordance with the following: 
4.16.1 The Lessee shall indemnify and hold harmless the Port 
Authority, its Commissioners, officers, agents and employees against . . . risks 
whether they arise from acts or omissions of the Lessee or the Port Authority or 
. . . third persons . . . . 
4.16.1.3 [For third party claims or demands] Lessee shall indemnify 
the Port Authority . . . and shall reimburse the Port Authority for the Port 
Authority’s costs or expenses including legal expenses incurred in connection 
with the defense of all such claims and demands. 
4.16.2 The Lessee shall pay all claims lawfully made against it by its 
contractors, subcontractors or materialmen and workmen and all claims lawfully 
made against it by other third persons arising out of or in connection with or 
because of the performance of the construction work . . . . Nothing herein 
contained shall be deemed to constitute consent to the creation of any lien or 
claim against the premises nor to create any rights in said third persons against the 
Port Authority. 
Section 6. Law Compliance, Taxes and Excises 
6.6 The Lessee shall pay all taxes, licenses, certification, permit and 
examination fees, duties, excises and all other governmental charges of every 
character present and future . . . which may be assessed, levied, exacted or 
imposed on the Lessee’s property, operations or occupancy hereunder or on any 
property whatsoever which may be received at the premises or on the rental or 
income therefrom . . . . 
Section 12. Maintenance, Repair and Rebuilding 
12.1 The Lessee shall, throughout the term of this Agreement assume the 
entire responsibility and shall relieve the Port Authority from all responsibility for 
all care, maintenance, repair and rebuilding whatsoever in the premises, whether 
such maintenance, repair or rebuilding be ordinary or extraordinary, partial or 
entire, foreseen or unforeseen, structural or otherwise . . . . 
12.2 . . . Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require the Port 
Authority to notify the Lessee of needed repairs or replacement of or required 
maintenance or preventive maintenance nor shall the Port Authority have any 
liability or responsibility whatsoever to third persons in or on the premises and 
the Lessee shall be solely responsible for any failure to perform needed 
maintenance, repair or restoration, rebuilding or painting. 
