-5-
Although the record does not specify the exact date when the construction of 7 World 
Trade Center was completed, it appears to have been completed in the late 1980s. Consequently, 
the period at issue, December 1, 1994 through November 24, 1997, was clearly during the 
operational phase, and not the development or construction phase, of petitioner’s lease with the 
Port Authority. This operational phase, under Section 2 of the lease, was specified to last for 39 
years at which time petitioner’s lease with the Port Authority would terminate. 
During the operational phase, petitioner was obligated, under Section 5.2 of the lease, to 
pay to the Port Authority a basic annual rental equal to the greater of (i) $150,000.00, or (2) 
$6.75 multiplied by the number of occupied rentable square feet. In addition to the above 
amount, petitioner was also required to pay to the Port Authority during the operational phase 
“an annual percentage rental which shall equal forty per cent (40%) of the excess of the Net 
Cash Flow arising during each annual period . . . .” This lease term, “Net Cash Flow,” was 
defined in Section 5.1 of the lease as “the excess of Gross Revenue over Gross Expenses for said 
annual period.” “Gross Revenue” was defined by the lease in detail and expansively as follows: 
[T]he total of all monies, revenues, receipts and income of every kind paid or 
payable to the Lessee or otherwise derived by the Lessee from or in connection 
with the operation of the Tower Building including but not limited to rentals, 
compensation, license or privilege fees or shares of income or revenue paid or 
payable to the Lessee from space tenants, licensees, concessionaires or others 
who occupy space or who conduct any business or perform any services in or 
from the Tower Building including proceeds of rent insurance . . . and monies or 
other compensation paid or payable to the Lessee arising out of the sale [of] 
merchandise or the rendition of services to space tenants, licensees, 
concessionaires and all monies paid or payable to the Lessee from the sale of 
equipment, supplies, products or other merchandise of any kind (whether by 
vending machine or otherwise) . . . . 
