Chapter 3   
56 NIST NCSTAR 1-1C, WTC Investigation 
Table 3–12.  Interior beam connection 
inspection points in WTC 7. 
Floor 
Number of 
Inspection 
Points 
5 5 
6 4 
8 6 
11 6 
19 5 
24 10 
26 7 
44 2 
Main roof 5 
Findings of Inspection 
According to the report, the structural framing was found to be in good condition.5 No problems or 
deterioration were found on the column splices, wind bracing, or the interior beam connections. 
Rust buildup was found between the flanges of members that rested on top of one another at the main roof 
level where the steel framing was exposed. Although this was not considered to be a structural problem, it 
was recommended that the steel should be cleaned and painted to prevent further deterioration. 
Throughout the building, fireproofing was found to be missing from the steel framing at locations where 
utility supports were installed. This condition was found on all of the floors that were inspected, but it 
was most prominent on the 5th floor framing above the main lobby and the 2nd floor framing above the 
loading dock area. The report recommended in the report that the fireproofing be replaced. 
Loose concrete was found on the north face of column number 51 on the 46th floor of the cooling tower 
area.6 Due to the potential hazard immediate action was recommended. Silverstein Properties personnel 
immediately removed the loose concrete. 
Floor slabs were found to be in good condition. Some of the exposed floor slabs exhibited shrinkage 
cracks on the top sides, and some had the composite metal deck damaged during construction. Neither of 
these conditions was considered to pose a structural problem. The report also recommended that 
delaminated concrete be removed at the concrete patch in the 6th floor slab. 
A complete list of the recommendations made in the report for immediate action, safety items, and routine 
repairs is reproduced in Fig. 3–4. 
                                                      
5 In this report (PANYNJ 1997), “good condition” means that the element is sound and performing its functions although it 
shows signs of use and may require some minor repairs, mostly routine. 
6 No information is given in PANYNJ (1997) on the size  or exact location of this loose concrete. 