 Structural Insp. Prog. During the Occupancy of WTC 1, 2, and 7 
NIST NCSTAR 1-1C, WTC Investigation 53 
Space Frame—Selected elements of the space frame (hat truss) were inspected at various locations on the 
107th to 110th floors. A total of 75 diagonal bracing members were visually inspected without removing 
fireproofing. A total of 199 members were inspected in the space frame. Light rust was found on diagonal 
braces, beams, and connections where fireproofing was missing. 
Recommendations—A priority recommendation was made in the report to replace the leaking valve 
under the 110th floor that rusted the floor beam. Routine recommendations were made as follows: 
(1) Repair the surface cracks in the MER concrete floor slabs with a surface sealer, (2) Repair the cracks 
in the concrete at the base of the columns, (3) Repair the cracks in the concrete pads supporting 
mechanical equipment, (4) Patch and repair the spalled concrete encasement of all appropriate structural 
members, and (5) Repair hangers that were found to be vibrating, bowed, sagged, and/or deformed. 
Roof 
A visual inspection of the top surface of the concrete roof deck and concrete wall at the inner perimeter of 
window washing rails was performed, and no significant structural deficiencies were found. Cracking and 
spalling was found at localized areas of the roof. Some of the spalled areas that had been previously 
patched with grout were found to be in poor condition due to exposure to weather. 
Horizontal cracks and efflorescence, spalled concrete, and exposed reinforcing bars with minor corrosion 
were found at the exterior walls of the access stairway located at the roof. The report suggests that the 
spalling of the concrete was due to inadequate concrete cover over the reinforcing bars. 
The helicopter pad at the southeast corner of the roof was visually inspected and was found to be in good 
condition. No deficiencies were found in the bases of the antennas, all of which were visually inspected. 
Recommendations—No priority recommendations were made for the roof. Routine recommendations 
were made as follows: (1) Remove and replace the existing patches in the roof slab using a bonding agent 
and non-shrink grout as a replacement and (2) Patch spalled areas of exterior concrete curb of the access 
stairway located at the roof. Other routine recommendations in the report were not structural in nature. 
3.1.3 Port Authority Facility Condition Survey Program – WTC 7 
The Port Authority Facility Condition Survey Program – WTC 7 report contains the findings of the 
condition survey of WTC 7, which was performed by Ammann & Whitney in 1997 for the EQAD of 
PANYNJ (PANYNJ 1997). 
Scope 
The scope of work was designed to minimize impact on tenant and facility operations, and was limited to 
(1) unoccupied floors, which were the mechanical/electrical and general service floors (floors 3 
through 6), and (2) floors that had vacant space (floors 7, 10, 18, 23, and 25). The following is a list of the 
structural elements that were inspected: 
1. Foundation 
2. Framing (column splices, wind bracing systems, and interior beam connections) 