 
NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation 389
Chapter 10 
STRUCTURAL HEATING 
10.1 THE FIRE STRUCTURE INTERFACE 
The Fire Structure Interface (FSI) was used to impose the air temperatures from the FDS simulations 
(Chapter 9) on the structural components of WTC 7 (Chapter 2) to predict the evolving thermal state of 
the building.  The FSI also linked the thermal analysis and structural analysis by creating thermal loading 
data in a format that was consistent with the structural models that were used to predict the collapse of the 
building (Chapters 11 and 12). The structural response analysis of WTC 7 to understand the collapse 
initiation mechanism was performed using the thermal data presented in this section. The approach was 
similar to that used to predict the fire induced thermal response of WTC 1 and WTC 2 described in 
NCSTAR 1-5G, and therefore, only a brief description of the major assumptions is included. 
The FSI converts the rapidly changing, three-dimensional FDS gas temperature profiles into slowly 
varying upper gas layer and lower gas layer temperatures.  These temperatures were time averaged over 
100 s and spatially averaged over 1 m (3.3 ft).  The upper layer temperatures were taken 0.4 m (1.3 ft) 
(one grid cell) below the ceiling.  The lower layer temperatures were taken 0.4 m (1.3) ft above the floor.  
Under this plane layer approximation, a simplified form of the radiative transport equation was solved to 
predict the radiative fluxes incident on the sub-grid scale structural elements. The incident radiative fluxes 
were functions of space and time and depended on the location and orientation of the structural elements. 
The radiative fluxes were also related to the local instantaneous properties of the hot layer as defined by 
the upper and lower layer temperature, absorption coefficient, and depth of the hot layer as computed in 
the fire simulations. 
10.2 MODEL INPUT 
As indicated in the preceding chapter, the fire simulations for the 7th, 8th and 12th floors were used to 
create thermal environments on Floors 7 through 13.  The simulated fire on the 8th floor was transposed 
one hour later and used to represent the fire on the 9th floor.  Similarly, the simulated fire on the 12th floor 
was transposed one hour later to represent the fire on the 11th floor and one-half hour later to represent the 
fire on the 13th floor.  The FSI source term for the remaining floors in the building was ambient 
temperature.  Figure 10–1 shows the gas temperature time history for Floor 12 near the ceiling by Column 
79 and the northeast corner. 