Chapter 2 
 NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation 34
2.5.2 Thermal Insulation Material for WTC 7 
Monokote MK-5 was the SFRM product applied to the structural steel framing and metal deck (see NIST 
NCSTAR 1-6A, Chapter 6).  Monokote MK-5 was a gypsum-based SFRM containing vermiculite 
aggregate that was manufactured by W.R. Grace and Co. (Cambridge, Massachusetts). 
Instructions to bidders4 for applying the sprayed fire-resistive materials for WTC 7 listed the required fire 
resistance ratings, as well as the following criteria: 
• 3 h rating for columns, girders, trusses, and all other steel framing supporting two or more floors. 
• 2 h rating for fluted steel decking and all floor support structural steel. 
• Sprayed-on fireproofing shall be of cementitious type or other asbestos free material of approved 
type.  Monokote as produced by the Zonolite Construction Products Division of W.R. Grace is 
approved for use. 
• Steel to which sprayed-on fireproofing will be applied will be unpainted. 
• The size of the structural steel and the rating shall determine the thickness of the SFRM. 
• The “Design Information Section” of the Underwriter’s Laboratories “Fire Resistance Index” 
dated January 1975, and any later revisions and the “Guide for Determining Conditions of 
Restraint …” including Appendix C from standard UL 263, shall form the basis of all the 
required work. 
• After application, spray-on fireproofing material will be tested by an independent testing agency, 
retained and paid for by the Owner. 
The contract for applying SFRM to WTC 7 was awarded to E. Patti & Sons in February 1985.  The 
SFRM product selected by E. Patti & Sons was MK-5.
5  Internal correspondence from W.R. Grace, dated 
April 29, 19866, which documented a site visit and discussion with E. Patti & Sons, stated that 7/16 in. of 
MK-5 was being applied to the floor beams, and 3/8 in. was being applied to the metal decks. 
The UL fire resistance ratings used to determine the appropriate SFRM thickness to apply to the columns, 
floor beams, and metal deck was BXUV.D739.  Table 2-1 lists SFRM thicknesses for the structural 
components in WTC 7. 
 
 
                                                     
 
4 Instructions to Bidders for Sprayed-on SFRM for WTC 7, Emery Roth & Sons, November 9, 1984. 
5 Letter from Grace Construction Products Division to Tishman Construction Corporation, January 14, 1986. 
6 Grace Construction Products Division Internal Memorandum, from a Technical Service Specialist to internal staff, 
April 29, 1986. 