  Full Floor Subsystem 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6C, WTC Investigation 61  
5.3 KNUCKLE ANALYSIS 
The objective of this analysis was to predict the capacity of the knuckle subjected to loads between the 
truss and the concrete slab and to develop a finite element model of the knuckle to be included in the full 
floor subsystem model. 
5.3.1 Description of Knuckle 
The “knuckle” was formed by the extension of the truss web diagonals into the concrete slab.  It provides 
for composite action of the steel truss and concrete slab (see Fig. 2–1) as it allows shear transfer in both 
the transverse and longitudinal directions. 
5.3.2 Failure Modes of Knuckle 
Failure modes of knuckles are: 
• Horizontal shear failure due to crack or crushing of concrete 
• Pullout failure due to vertical tension 
5.3.3 Knuckle Shear Tests 
Two sets of experiments were performed in 1967 at Laclede Steel Company in Saint Louis, Missouri, to 
determine the transverse and longitudinal shear capacities of the knuckle. 
The longitudinal shear test consisted of double knuckles cast into two concrete blocks as shown in  
Fig. 5–17.  The test specification showed corner angles confining the concrete blocks and no 
reinforcement in concrete.  However, the test pictures showed reinforcement in both directions for each 
concrete block, with the corner angles dismantled.  The test specification called for concrete density of 
152 pcf, which corresponds to a normal weight concrete.  The slab in the office areas was made from 
lightweight concrete.  Three specimens were tested: two specimens after 28-day curing and one after 
96-day curing.  The average compressive strength of two 28-day cylinders tested was 4,290 psi.  A third 
sample, tested after 96 days, showed a strength of 2,850 psi.  No reason is known for the compressive 
strength in the third test being less than the other two tests.  The test specification did not identify the 
weld size connecting the inner ends of the two knuckles to two channels.  However, the primary failure 
mode observed in the third test was weld failure.  Weld failure was not identified as the failure mode of 
the knuckle for the other two tests.  The results of the longitudinal shear strengths of the knuckle based on 
the first two tests were approximately 28.3 kip per knuckle.  The strength of in-place, mature, lightweight 
concrete is 4,100 psi, and the 28-day corrected average strength of the normal weight concrete used in the 
test was 3,707 psi.  After adjusting for the strength of in-place, mature, lightweight concrete by 
multiplying by the ratio of 4,100 psi to 3,707 psi, the longitudinal shear capacity of the knuckle in the 
WTC floor systems was determined at approximately 31 kip per knuckle. 
The transverse shear test consisted of double knuckles cast into two reinforced concrete blocks that were 
confined at the corners by angles as shown in Fig. 5–18.  The concrete density was 110 pcf, 
corresponding to a lightweight concrete.  Two tests were conducted, seven and 27 days after casting 
concrete.  The concrete compressive strengths reported for seven-day and 27-day cylinder tests were 
1,330 psi, and 2,600 psi, respectively.  The inner ends of the two knuckles were connected through 
channels to a #11 rebar, and the rebar was loaded until the concrete failed.  The tests were conducted at 
concrete ages of six and 27 days.  The primary failure mode observed was concrete shear failure.  The 
pictures from the tests showed formation of a shear crack in one of the concrete blocks.  The transverse 