CHAPTER 7: Peripheral Buildings 
Figure 7-9 
Verizon building – column damage on east elevation (Washington Street). 
The south (Vesey Street) side of the building was damaged from approximately the 13th floor down, 
primarily due to the impact of projectile debris from the collapse of WTC 1 (Figure 7-10). In addition to 
fairly extensive façade damage (bricks and windows), two bays of slab and framing were damaged at the 
sidewalk arcade at the 1st floor, and one bay of slab and framing (including spandrel beams) was damaged at 
the 6th, 7th, 9th, 11th, 12th, and 13th floors (Figures 7–11 and 7-12). In addition, one interior column 
suffered minor damage below the 1st floor. 
None of the damage to the floor framing threatened the structural integrity of the building. Although 
the damaged columns were deflected out-of-plane, it was determined that the columns were stable and not 
in danger of imminent collapse. 
In general, the Verizon building performed well, especially given its close proximity to WTC 7. On 
the south (Vesey Street) side of the building, damage was extremely localized near the point of impact of 
projectile debris. In some cases, only a short section of spandrel beam and small area of floor slab were 
damaged, leaving the remainder of the structural bay intact (Figure 7-12). 
On the east (Washington Street) side of the building, most of the damage appeared to be due to the 
lateral pressure of the spreading debris at the base of WTC 7 (Figure 7-7). Two of the columns between the 1st 
and 2nd floors were deflected into the building by as much as 2 feet (with most of the rotation occurring at the 
column splice just above the 1st floor); at one of the columns, very little contact remained at the column splice 
(Figure 7-9). Even so, the columns did not buckle, and structural bays above did not collapse or deflect 
significantly. Similarly, the structural bays supported by the column between the 6th and 8th floors that was 
completely destroyed by the impact of projectile debris were essentially undamaged. 
7-10 
WORLD TRADE CENTER BUILDING PERFORMANCE STUDY 
