CHAPTER 7: Peripheral Buildings 
The 30-story Verizon building was built in the 1930s and has a steel frame with infill exterior walls 
of unreinforced masonry, and five basement levels. The steel frame is encased in cinder-concrete and 
draped-wire-mesh, with cinder-concrete slab floor construction. Beams are rolled sections (mostly 12 
inches deep) with cover plates at floors with high live loads. Girders are either rolled sections or built up 
from plates and angles. Columns are also built-up sections. Partially restrained moment frames at the 
building perimeter provide lateral resistance. The masonry walls are about 12 inches thick (on average), 
and the columns are encased in brick. The façade and 1st floor lobby are registered as historic landmarks. 
At the time of the adjacent building collapses, the Verizon building was in the midst of an extensive 
façade restoration program. 
The proximity of the building to WTC 2 resulted in considerable damage to the south and east faces 
of the building. Damage included collapsed floor slabs and deformed beams and columns, including some 
local buckling. Window damage was moderate, and it is notable that the windows contained wire mesh. 
The west (West Street) and north (Barclay Street) sides of the building were not damaged. 
The east (Washington Street) side of the building was damaged from about the 9th floor down, 
primarily due to the impact of debris sliding out from the base of WTC 7 (Figures 7-6, 7-7, and 7-8). Some 
damage may have also been caused by WTC 1 debris. In addition to fairly extensive façade damage (bricks 
and windows), there was damage to two bays of slab and framing at the 1st, 4th, and 7th floors and to one 
bay of slab and framing (including spandrel 
beam) at the 1st floor mezzanine and at the 
5th floor. Two exterior columns suffered 
major damage between the 1st and 2nd 
floors (Figure 7-9), one exterior column 
suffered minor damage between the 3rd 
and 5th floors, and two exterior columns 
suffered major damage between the 6th and 
8th floors. In addition, one interior column 
suffered minor damage below the 7th floor. 
Figure 7-6 
Verizon building – damage to east elevation 
(Washington Street). 
7-8 
WORLD TRADE CENTER BUILDING PERFORMANCE STUDY 
