CHAPTER 7: Peripheral Buildings 
Damage was concentrated along the south face at and below the setback at the 15th floor. Portions of 
the south façade from the 15th floor collapsed. A vertical section of the perimeter wall extending five floors 
down from the setback at the center of the south façade was raked away. Local collapse also occurred at the 
southwest corner. The majority of the glass panes were knocked out on the south façade, in a triangular 
pattern that extended to the full width of the base. The south side of the building was unstable and required 
bracing. Floors 9 through 14 had two collapsed bays, and floors 3 through 6 had up to three collapsed bays. 
No structural damage was observed one bay away from the impact damage. 
Floors 9 through 14 had at least two collapsed exterior bays and floors 3 through 6 had at least three 
collapsed exterior bays. There was relatively little damage at the 7th floor. A considerable amount of debris 
was on the 8th floor. The steel beams supporting two bays of this floor yielded, but are still in place. 
The building was impacted by debris from the collapse of WTC 7. Although structural damage from 
debris impact was contained to the exterior bays on the south side of the building and between roof setback 
levels, it was more extensive than that observed on the east side of the Verizon building. 
7.5 130 Cedar Street 
Constructed in the 1930s, the building at 130 Cedar Street is a 12–story reinforced concrete frame 
structure with setbacks at the 10th, 11th, and 12th floors (Figure 7-14). The building is directly east of 90 West 
Street and is bordered by Cedar Street to the north, Washington Street to the east, and Albany Street to the south. 
The floor framing consists of reinforced concrete flat slabs supported on square columns with 
capitals and dropped slabs. Columns are spaced at approximately 16 feet on center in the east-west 
direction and approximately 21 feet on center in the north-south direction. Perimeter concrete spandrel 
Figure 7-14 130 Cedar Street and 90 West Street. 
7-14 
WORLD TRADE CENTER BUILDING PERFORMANCE STUDY 
