 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  xxix 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
E.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE FI RE RESISTANCE TESTS 
One of the objectives of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Investigation was to 
determine why and how the World Trade Center (WTC) towers collapsed following the initial impact of 
the aircraft.  A key aspect of this work was to differentiate the factors that most influenced the collapse of 
the WTC towers as they may relate to normal building and fire safety considerations and those unique to 
the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.  Another of the NIST Investigation objectives was to study 
the procedures and practices that were used in the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of the 
WTC buildings.  As an important public safety objective, it was necessary to establish the facts regarding 
the acceptance procedures for innovative materials, technologies, and systems.  Past building and fire 
safety investigations have shown that such studies help to identify improvements to practices, standards, 
and codes that may be warranted. 
NIST review of available documents had indicated that the fire performance of the composite floor 
system of the WTC towers was an issue of concern to the building owners and designers not only during 
the original design phase but throughout the service life of the buildings.  NIST found no evidence 
regarding the technical basis for the selection of sprayed fire-resistive material (SFRM ) for the WTC 
floor trusses and for the SFRM thickness to achieve a 2 h rating.  Further, no evidence was found that fire 
resistance tests of the WTC floor system were conducted.  Review of documents related to the WTC has 
not identified a similar concern for other structural components of the WTC towers. 
To address, in part, the investigation objectives cited above, NIST conducted a series of four standard fire 
resistance tests of the composite floor system used in the towers.  The fire resistance tests were conducted 
to study three factors: the effect of (1) SFRM thickness, (2) test restraint conditions, and (3) scale of the 
test.  The tests were conducted by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) under contract to NIST at UL’s 
Northbrook (Illinois) fire testing facility and at its affiliate’s, Underwriters Laboratories of Canada, fire 
testing facilities in Toronto. 
E.2 THE WTC FLOOR SYSTEM AND SFRM 
The floor system design for the world trade center consisted of a lightweight concrete floor slab supported 
by steel trusses bridging between the building’s core columns and exterior wall columns.  The main 
composite trusses, which were used in pairs, spanned either 60 ft or 35 ft.  Steel double-angles formed the 
top and bottom chords of the trusses, while round bars were used for the webs.  The web members 
protruded above the top chord in the form of a “knuckle” which was embedded in the concrete slab to 
develop composite action.  Additionally, the floor system included bridging trusses perpendicular to the 
main trusses.  In the corners of the towers, the bridging trusses acted with the main trusses to provide two-
way slab action.  
Passive fire protection was provided by sprayed fire-resistive materials (SFRM), commonly referred to as 
“fireproofing,” applied directly to the steel bars of the trusses.  The Port Authority of New York and New 
Jersey (PANYNY or Port Authority) specified U.S. Minerals Products Cafco BLAZE-SHIELD Type D as 