 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  iii 
ABSTRACT 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) review of available documents related to the 
design and construction of the World Trade Center (WTC) towers indicated that the fire performance of 
the composite floor system of the WTC towers was an issue of concern to the building owners and 
designers from the original design and throughout the service life of the buildings.  However, NIST found 
no evidence that fire resistance tests of the WTC floor system were ever conducted.  As a result, NIST 
conducted a series of four standard fire resistance tests (ASTM E 119).  In this series of tests, the effects 
of three factors were studied: (1) thickness of sprayed fire-resistive material (SFRM), (2) test restraint 
conditions, and (3) scale of the test.  The tests were conducted by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. under a 
NIST contract and represented both full-scale (35 ft span) and reduced-scale (17 ft span) floor assemblies 
constructed to represent the original design as closely as practical.  For three of the tests, the thickness of 
the sprayed fire resistive material was ¾ in. which represented the average thickness applied in the 
original construction.  In the fourth test, the thickness of applied SFRM was ½ in. which was the 
thickness specified for the original design.  Tests were conducted in both the restrained and unrestrained 
condition to provide bounds on the expected performance of the floor system under the standard fire 
exposure.  The restrained full-scale floor system obtained a fire resistance rating of 1½ h, while the 
unrestrained floor system achieved a 2 h rating. For the unrestrained test condition, specimens protected 
with ¾ in. thick sprayed fire resistive material were able to sustain the maximum design load for 
approximately 2 h without collapsing; in the unrestrained test, the load was maintained without collapsing 
for 3½ h.  Past experience with the ASTM E 119 test method would lead investigators to expect that the 
unrestrained floor assembly would not perform as well as the restrained assembly, and therefore, would 
receive a lower fire rating.  A fire rating of 2 h was determined from the reduced-scale test with the 
average applied SFRM thickness of ¾ in., while a fire rating of 1½ h was determined from the full-scale 
test with the same SFRM thickness.  This finding raises the question of whether or not a fire rating based 
on the ASTM E 119 performance of a 17 ft span floor assembly is scalable to a larger floor system such 
as found in the WTC towers where spans ranged from 35 ft to 60 ft. 
Keywords: ASTM E 119, fire testing, floor systems, sprayed fire-resistive materials, standard fire test, 
steel, structural behavior, testing, trusses, World Trade Center. 
 