Executive Summary  
xxx NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation 
the sprayed fire-resistive material and in a letter to the fireproofing contractor stated that “All Tower 
beams, spandrels, and bar joists requiring spray-on fireproofing are to have a ½″ [1/2 in] covering of 
Cafco1”.  Measured thicknesses of the applied SFRM were found to vary between 0.52 in. and 1.17 in. 
with an overall average of approximately 0.75 in.  These two thicknesses, ½ in. representing specified 
thickness and ¾ in. representing average applied thickness, were used in the standard fire resistance tests 
described here. 
E.3 FIRE RESISTANCE TESTING 
The fire rating of structural materials and assemblies is generally determined through testing, and in the 
United States, such testing is frequently conducted in accordance with ASTM E 119, “Standard Test 
Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials.”  The test methods described in 
ASTM E 119 prescribe a standard fire exposure for comparing the test results of building construction 
assemblies.  For the tests of floors and roofs, a test assembly is structurally loaded and the standard fire 
exposure is applied to the underside of the specimen.  The assembly is evaluated for its ability to contain 
the fire by limiting flame spread (hot gasses) and heating of the unexposed surface while maintaining the 
applied load.  The assembly is given a rating, expressed in hours, based on these conditions of acceptance. 
Since 1971, versions of the ASTM E 119 Standard differentiate between testing and classifying thermally 
restrained and unrestrained floor assemblies.  A thermally restrained specimen is “one in which expansion 
at the support of a load carrying element resulting from the effects of fire is resisted by forces external to 
the element.” In an unrestrained condition, the element is free to expand and rotate at its supports.  It is 
customary in the United States to conduct standard fire tests of floor assemblies in the restrained 
condition. 
The current standard describes a means to establish restrained and unrestrained ratings for floor 
assemblies from restrained test samples.  For restrained ratings from restrained test samples, the 
conditions of acceptance are based on limiting the passage of flame and hot gasses, limiting temperatures 
on the unexposed surface of the slab, and failure of the assembly to sustain the applied load.  For an 
unrestrained rating determined from a restrained test sample, the conditions of acceptance are based on 
the same criteria and, in addition, temperature limitations are placed on the main structural members. 
In addition, since 1971, the ASTM E 119 Standard describes a means to establish unrestrained ratings 
from unrestrained test samples.  For unrestrained samples, the fire resistance rating is again based on 
limiting passage of flame and hot gasses, exceeding temperatures on the unexposed surface of the slab, 
and failure to sustain the applied load; there are no limiting temperatures on the steel structural members 
when the test sample is installed in an unrestrained condition.   
Prior to 1970, there was no distinction between restraint conditions, nor were restrained and unrestrained 
ratings defined in ASTM E 119.  Fire resistance ratings were determined based upon the same 
requirements as for restrained assemblies described above, and no limitations were placed on temperature 
of structural steel. 
                                                     
 
1 Cafco was the manufacturer of the SFRM used for fire protection of structural steel in the WTC. 