Introduction 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  3 
The BLAZE-SHIELD D product originally specified contained asbestos and its use was discontinued in 
1970 at the 38th floor of WTC 1.  Thermal protection of the remaining floors of WTC 1 and all of WTC 2 
was carried out using BLAZE-SHIELD DC/F, a product that contained mineral wool fibers in place of the 
asbestos fibers.   
In 1994, the Port Authority performed a series of thickness measurements of the existing SFRM 
on floors 23 and 24 of WTC 1.  Six measurements were taken from “both flanges and web” of 
each of 16 random trusses on each floor at those locations where the SFRM was not damaged or 
absent.  Measured average thickness varied between 0.52 in. and 1.17 in. and for the 32 
measurements (16 on each floor) the overall average was 0.74 in.  Four of the 32 trusses, had an 
average thicknesses between 0.52 in. and 0.56 in.  This limited set of data suggests that the 
average thickness of SFRM as originally installed (as contrasted with SFRM that was upgraded in 
thickness beginning in the 1990s) was approximately 0.75 in. 
1.3.2 Restraint Conditions 
It is customary in the United States to conduct standard fire tests of floor assemblies in the restrained 
condition; that is, the condition in which expansion at the support of the floor test assembly resulting from 
the effects of the exposing fire is resisted by forces external to the element.  In practice, a floor assembly 
such as that used in the WTC towers is neither restrained nor unrestrained, but likely its restraint 
condition lies somewhere in between.  Testing under both restraint conditions, then, provides bounds on 
the expected performance of the floor system under the standard fire exposure.  In addition, it provides a 
comparison of unrestrained ratings developed from both restrained and unrestrained test conditions. 
1.3.3 Scale  
Traditionally, relatively light assemblies have been tested with spans less than 18 ft, and results have been 
scaled up to practical floor system dimensions and spans.  The Underwriters Laboratories of Canada fire 
testing facility in Toronto (ULC) has a furnace with nominal long dimension of 35 ft.  Thus, full- or large-
scale tests of floor assemblies can be tested in this furnace.  Availability of the 35 ft span furnace at ULC, 
in addition to the 17 ft span furnace at UL’s Northbrook, Illinois, facility (ULN) allowed NIST to conduct 
comparison tests to study the effect of scale
6. 
1.4 TEST PROGRAM 
Four tests as noted above were designed and conducted as follows: 
• Test No. 1:  Full-scale, restrained test condition, ¾ in. thick SFRM. 
• Test No. 2:  Full-scale, unrestrained test condition, ¾ in. thick SFRM. 
• Test No. 3:  Reduced-scale, restrained conditions, ¾ in. thick SFRM. 
                                                      
6 ULC is used in this report to identify the fire testing facility  operated by UL’s affiliate, Underwriters Laboratories of Canada, 
while ULN is used to identify UL’s Northbrook (Illinois) fire testing facility.   