Executive Summary  
xxxii NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation 
E.5 TEST RESULTS 
Results of the four tests are summarized as follows: 
• The test assemblies were able to withstand standard fire conditions for between ¾ h and 2 h 
without exceeding the limits prescribed by ASTM E 119. 
• Test specimens protected with ¾ in. thick spray applied fire-resistive material were able to 
sustain the maximum design load for approximately 2 hours without collapsing; in the 
unrestrained test, the load was maintained for 3½ h without collapsing.   
• The restrained full-scale floor system obtained a fire resistance rating of 1½ h while the 
unrestrained floor system achieved a 2 h rating.  Past experience with the ASTM E 119 test 
method would lead investigators to expect that the unrestrained floor assembly would not 
perform as well as the restrained assembly, and therefore, would receive a lower fire rating. 
• A fire rating of 2 h was determined from the reduced-scale test with the average applied 
SFRM thickness of ¾ in., while a fire rating of 1½ h was determined from the full-scale test 
with the same SFRM thickness. 
• The result stated above raises the question of whether or not a fire rating based on the 
ASTM E 119 performance of a 17 ft span floor assembly is scalable to a larger floor system 
such as found in the WTC towers where spans ranged from 35 ft to 60 ft.   
• A fire rating of ¾ h was determined from the reduced-scale test with the specified SFRM 
thickness of ½ in. 
The tested floor assemblies were similar, though not identical, to steel joist and concrete floor systems 
that are widely used in low rise construction.  The test results provide valuable insight into the behavior of 
these widely used assemblies and also identify issues regarding scaling, restraint, and SFRM thickness 
that require further study for floor systems and other types of structural components such as beams, 
girders, columns, trusses, etc. 
The NIST tests identified areas where further study related to the Standard Fire Resistance Test method 
may be warranted.  The issues related to the test method that NIST will consider in formulating its 
recommendations include:  
• the scale of the test for prototype assemblies that are much larger than the tested assemblies,  
• the effect of restraint conditions on test results, 
• the repeatability of test results (e.g., do multiple fire resistance tests conducted under the 
same conditions yield the same results?), 
• the effects of test scale, end restraint, and test repeatability on other types of structural 
components (beams, girders, columns, etc.), and 