Executive Summary 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  xxxi 
In practice, a floor assembly such as that used in the WTC towers is neither restrained nor unrestrained 
but is likely somewhere in between.  Testing under both restraint conditions, then, bounds expected 
performance under the standard fire exposure.  In addition, it provides a comparison of unrestrained 
ratings developed from both restrained and unrestrained test conditions. 
The ASTM E 119 Standard requires that, for floor and roof assembly tests, the area exposed to fire be a 
minimum of 180 ft2 and neither dimension of the furnace less than 12 ft.  Traditionally, relatively small 
scale assemblies have been tested, and results have been scaled to practical floor system spans. 
The Underwriters Laboratories of Canada fire testing facility in Toronto, has a furnace with nominal 
dimensions of 35 ft by 14 ft.  Thus, full- or large-scale tests of floor assemblies can be tested in this 
furnace.  Availability of the 35 ft span furnace in UL’s Toronto facility, in addition to the 17 ft span 
furnace its Northbrook, Illinois, facility allowed NIST to conduct tests to compare the effect of scale. 
E.4 TEST PROGRAM 
To limit the number of tests and obtain information of greatest value to meet the investigation objectives, 
NIST conducted four tests to study the effect of three factors: SFRM thickness, scale of the test, and test 
restraint conditions.  To this end, four tests were designed and conducted as follows: 
• Test #1:  Full-scale, restrained test condition, ¾ in. thick SFRM. 
• Test #2:  Full-scale, unrestrained test condition, ¾ in. thick SFRM. 
• Test #3:  Reduced-scale, restrained conditions, ¾ in. thick SFRM. 
• Test #4:  Reduced-scale, restrained conditions, ½ in. thick SFRM. 
The full-scale tests were conducted at the Underwriters Laboratories of Canada fire testing facility in 
Toronto .  Loading of the floor slab with an applied load to “simulate a maximum load condition,” as 
required by ASTM E 119, was accomplished through a combination concrete blocks and containers filled 
with water.  The water containers were tied-off with steel cables to prevent them from falling into the 
furnace and causing damage to the fire brick and instrumentation in the event of a catastrophic failure of 
the floor system.   
For the reduced-scale test specimens, the size of the truss members and thickness of concrete slab were 
selected to allow the most information to be extracted as practicably possible considering that the 
Standard Fire Resistance Test is a test of the assembly’s ability to contain a fire and is based on both 
thermal response (flame spread and heating of the unexposed surface) and structural response (support the 
applied load) to the standard fire exposure.  The sizes of the steel members, thickness of concrete slab, 
and truss spacing were selected to be the same as in the full-scale tests.  Otherwise, the geometry was 
scaled by roughly half.  This scaling required that the loading be increased by a factor of two. 