Chapter 3 
 NIST NCSTAR 1-9A, WTC Investigation 26
Shell element component
of shear connection
Discrete element in shear 
connection
Shell element component
of shear connection
Discrete element in shear 
connection
 
Figure 3-6. Generic LS-DYNA model of shear connection. 
After developing models for all of the shear connection groupings in LS-DYNA, a comparison was 
performed between the LS-DYNA and ANSYS models. The ANSYS model used a different approach to 
modeling the connection failure mechanisms with the use of beam and break elements (NIST NCSTAR 
1-9, Chapter 11). The comparison showed good agreement for selected connections, which increased 
confidence in both of the separately developed modeling approaches. 
Seated Top Plate (STP) Connections 
The STP connections connected the interior girders and beams to exterior columns.  A schematic of a STP 
connection is shown in Figure 3-7. The connections included plates welded between the column flanges 
above and below the framing member. During construction, the beam was bolted to the plates with two 
7/8 in. A325 bolts per plate. The shear force-deflection behavior of an individual bolt is shown in the 
figure as well. The geometry varied slightly in the actual details for north/south and east/west bearing 
connections. In the model, the same basic geometry was used to approximate both. 
The STP connection model developed for LS-DYNA is shown in Figure 3-8. It included the plates above 
and below the beam, which provided vertical constraint. The plates were attached to the columns with an 
edge-to-surface tied interface. Separate sliding contact definitions were used for bearing connections to 
avoid conflicts with the main sliding contact definition and the required tied contact between the plates 
and columns. Sliding contact was specified between the beams and plates.  
Bolts in the LS-DYNA model were represented with discrete elements.  The properties of the discrete 
elements were tailored to match the bolt specifications in the actual construction. Each bolt had a 35 kip 
(156 kN) yield and 45 kip (200 kN) failure load in shear. Maximum displacement at failure was 0.45 in. 
(0.011 m) in shear. A component model was developed and tested with respect to the predicted behavior. 
Figure 3-9 shows the resulting horizontal load and connection energy capacity. 
Examples showing STP connections and shear connections along the building perimeter are shown in 
Figure 3-10 and Figure 3-11. 