92 
CHAPTER 4.0 SIMULATING THE COLLAPSE OF WTC 7 
 
This chapter presents the findings of our collapse analysis for the collapse of WTC 7. The 
goal of our analysis was to determine what types of local failures and their locations may have 
caused the total collapse to occur as observed. 
4.1 Key Features of the Collapse 
Based on our review of video footage and of the NIST and FEMA Reports, we identified 
three key features that occurred during the collapse of WTC 7, which we then attempted to 
replicate in our simulations of the collapse. These three key features are as follows: 
1. The collapse of the east penthouse, which begins approximately 6.9 seconds prior to the 
descent of the north face roofline; 
2. The collapse of the screen wall and west penthouse, which begins approximately 0.5 to 1 
second prior to the descent of the north face roofline; and 
3. The descent of the north face roofline, which progresses at a rate of free fall for 
approximately 2.25 to 2.5 seconds over a distance of approximately 105 feet or 8 stories, 
during which the building’s sheathing remains attached to the exterior steel framing and 
does not experience visible differential movements. 
4.1.1 Discussion of NIST’s Progressive Collapse Simulation 
 
During our nonlinear connection study (Section 2.1.3.2), wherein we examined NIST’s 
modeling of WTC 7’s structural connections and its effect on NIST’s progressive collapse 
simulation, we also observed that NIST’s progressive collapse simulation did not closely 
resemble the observed collapse. While NIST’s progressive collapse simulation does show the 
three key features listed above, it also predicts significant differential movements in the exterior, 
both before and during the fall of the roofline, that were not observed in the video (see Figures 
4.1a and 4.1b). Such differential movements in the exterior would be extremely likely to have 
caused window breakage, cracking of the façade, and exterior deformation, none of which were 
observed. A major goal of our analysis was to identify failure mechanisms that would predict the 
minimal differential movement of the exterior seen in videos of the collapse. However, it should 
be noted that after the east penthouse collapse, window breakage did occur for 12 to 15 floors 
down from the top of the building under the penthouse. This was most likely caused by shock 
