94 
4.2 The UAF Research Team’s Approach  
 
We used both ABAQUS and SAP2000 finite element software to simulate various types 
of failures. Subsequently, several hypothetical scenarios were examined in order to determine 
what types of local failures could and could not produce the key features described above. One 
set of analyses was performed for the collapse of the east penthouse. A second set of analyses 
was performed for the collapse of the west penthouse and north face roofline (i.e., the main 
observed collapse event). The column beam framing connections for the penthouse were 
considered rigid as it shortened modeling time while minimally affecting the response and 
resulting behavior of the structure. However, it did affect the appearance at the bottom corners of 
the penthouse. For all collapse models and analyses, we included the debris damage assumed by 
NIST, which involved six exterior columns on the southwest face of the building reportedly 
being severed by falling debris from the collapse of WTC 1. In all cases, failure simulations were 
based on finite element analysis results and the deformations presented were scaled by the 
software to help the reader visualize direction and relative magnitude for the displaced shape(s). 
Displaced magnitudes in each figure are exaggerated and are not scaled to the building geometry. 
Displacement values are typically given in inches within each figure.   
4.2.1 Hypothetical Failure Mechanisms for the East Penthouse Collapse 
 
The east penthouse was supported by Columns 79, 80, and 81. Therefore, like NIST, we 
hypothesized that the collapse of the east penthouse resulted from these three columns failing. 
 
The main question we sought to address in our simulations — and where our findings 
diverge from NIST’s — was the height at which Columns 79, 80, and 81 most likely failed. 
NIST hypothesized that these columns failed due to Column 79 losing lateral support from Floor 
5 to 14, i.e., the columns failed relatively low in the building (the local failures alleged by NIST 
to have caused the loss of lateral support for Column 79 are examined in the preceding chapters). 
We simulated the failure of Columns 79, 80, and 81 at different floor intervals throughout the 
building — starting from Floors 6 to 13 and continuing all the way to the uppermost part (Floor 
45 to the penthouse) — and examined the resulting behavior of the east penthouse as well as the 
behavior of the building’s exterior.    
 
  
