95 
4.2.2 Hypothetical Failure Mechanisms for West Penthouse and North Face Roofline 
Collapse 
 
In the progressive collapse scenario advanced by NIST, the failure of Columns 79, 80, 
and 81 that directly caused the collapse of the east penthouse also initiated a horizontal 
progression of core column failures that took out every core column. According to NIST, this 
redistributed loads to the shell of exterior columns, which gave way shortly after the core 
columns failed (in NIST’s scenario, the collapse of the exterior shell is what was observed and 
captured on video). 
 
First, we simulated NIST’s scenario. Finding that NIST’s scenario was not feasible, we 
simulated another scenario: the simultaneous failure of all core columns over the 8 stories 
between floors 12 and 19 followed 1.3 seconds later by the simultaneous failure of all exterior 
columns over the same 8 stories. Further, we attempted to verify a kink in the north face. This 
kink shows up in the video as the structure begins to collapse. It is argued that the kink was a 
result of inner core columns failing first and the remaining exterior columns pulled in (i.e. 
buckling inward) shortly after. However, we were unable to simulate this phenomenon with the 
software. The limitations of the software in modeling buckling with time is based on needing 
small time steps and small incremental deformations within each time step.   
4.3 Results of the East Penthouse Collapse Analyses 
 
The linear static analysis results for the simulations where we removed Columns 79, 80, 
and 81 at different floor intervals are shown in Figures 4.2 to 4.7 below. 
 
Based on these analyses, we found that Columns 79, 80, and 81 did not fail at the lower 
floors of the building (e.g., from Floor 6 to 13 or Floor 13 to 21). We found that the failure of 
Columns 79, 80, and 81 at the lower floors of the building would cause the building to tilt 
dramatically to the east, which would have been observed in the videos but was not, and that it 
would not cause the east penthouse to collapse, because the intact portions of Columns 79, 80, 
and 81 above where the columns failed would still support the penthouse.  
 
On the other hand, we found that the failure of Columns 79, 80, and 81 at the upper floors 
of the building, especially at Floor 45 all the way up to the penthouse, would cause the penthouse 
