100 
 
Going one step further, we simulated the failure of Columns 76, 77, and 78, even though 
these columns would not buckle due to the loss of Columns 79, 80, and 81. With the removal of 
six core columns on the eastern side of the building (Columns 76 through 81), we found that a 
total collapse of the building would ensue. First, the axial loads on the exterior columns around 
the southeastern corner of the building would exceed design loads, causing these exterior 
columns to fail. The failure of these exterior columns would then cause the axial loads on most 
of the remaining core columns and some of the remaining exterior columns to exceed design 
loads, resulting in those columns failing and leading shortly thereafter to total collapse. However, 
rather than a straight-down collapse as observed, the building would tip to the southeast, as 
illustrated in Figures 4.14, 4.15, and 4.16 below. 
 
We draw two main conclusions from our attempt to simulate NIST’s scenario of a 
horizontal progression of core column failures: 
1. A horizontal progression of core column failures — starting with Columns 79, 80, and 
81 — was not feasible. Therefore, the hypotheses of NIST, Arup/Nordenson, and 
Weidlinger that the buckling of Column 79 could trigger a progressive collapse of the 
entire building are invalid. 
2. Even if we assume the failure of Columns 79, 80, and 81 could lead to the failure of the 
next row of core columns — Columns 76, 77, and 78 — the loss of these columns 
along with the loss of Columns 79, 80, and 81 would overload the exterior columns 
around the southeast corner of the building rather than overloading the next row of core 
columns to the west, which would result in the building tipping to the southeast and not 
in a straight-down collapse. 
 
We can also derive from this analysis that even if the full horizontal progression of core 
column failures asserted by NIST, Arup/Nordenson, and Weidlinger had somehow occurred, 
leaving the exterior standing as a hollow shell momentarily, it would still not result in the 
observed straight-down collapse. 
