ii 
ABSTRACT 
A Structural Reevaluation of the Collapse of World Trade Center 7 
By 
J. Leroy Hulsey, Ph.D., P.E., S.E., 
University of Alaska Fairbanks 
 
And 
Zhili Quan, Ph.D., Bridge Engineer 
South Carolina Department of Transportation 
 
And 
Feng Xiao, Ph.D., Associate Professor 
Nanjing University of Science and Technology 
Department of Civil Engineering 
 
 
This report presents the findings and conclusions of a four-year study of the collapse of 
World Trade Center Building 7 (WTC 7) — a 47-story building that suffered a total collapse at 
5:20 PM on September 11, 2001, following the horrible events of that morning. 
 
 
The objective of the study was threefold: (1) Examine the structural response of WTC 7 
to fire loads that may have occurred on September 11, 2001; (2) Rule out scenarios that could not 
have caused the observed collapse; and (3) Identify types of failures and their locations that may 
have caused the total collapse to occur as observed. 
 
 
The UAF research team utilized three approaches for examining the structural response 
of WTC 7 to the conditions that may have occurred on September 11, 2001. First, we simulated 
the local structural response to fire loading that may have occurred below Floor 13, where most 
of the fires in WTC 7 are reported to have occurred. Second, we supplemented our own 
simulation by examining the collapse initiation hypothesis developed by the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology (NIST). Third, we simulated several scenarios within the overall 
structural system in order to determine what types of local failures and their locations may have 
caused the total collapse to occur as observed. 
 
 
The principal conclusion of our study is that fire did not cause the collapse of WTC 7 on 
9/11, contrary to the conclusions of NIST and private engineering firms that studied the collapse. 
The secondary conclusion of our study is that the collapse of WTC 7 was a global failure 
involving the near-simultaneous failure of every column in the building. 
 
 
All input data, results data, and simulations that were used or generated during this study 
are available at http://ine.uaf.edu/wtc7. 
 
 
