21 
expansion. The Nordenson report instead put forth the idea that the welds of these girder 
connections failed due to stress raisers (cracking) caused by repeated heating and cooling cycles. 
1.4.4 Weidlinger, October 2010 
The engineering firm Weidlinger Associates Inc. (Weidlinger) was retained by the 
defendants in “Aegis Insurance Services, Inc. v. 7 World Trade Center Company, L.P.” to 
perform structural analysis in support of their defense that the collapse of WTC 7 did not result 
from deficient design and was instead caused by the extraordinary events of September 11, 2001. 
The Weidlinger report, as it is referred to hereafter, was completed in October 2010 but was 
never filed with the court. The Weidlinger report was made public in June 2016. 
The Weidlinger report found fault with various aspects of the Arup and Nordenson 
reports, in particular with Nordenson’s alleged failure of girder connections at lower floors and 
with Nordenson’s analysis of the impact of the unseated girder on the floor below. The 
Weidlinger report noted that the impact of the unseated girder would not be sufficient to break 
through the floor below. The Weidlinger report instead postulated, based on fire modeling 
performed by Dr. Craig Beyler, that Floors 9 and 10 were simultaneously heated to between 750° 
and 800°C in the exact same area of each floor. This extreme heating eventually caused Floor 10 
to give way and break through Floor 9, which was possible only because of the extreme heating 
of Floor 9. Weidlinger then claims that the falling debris from these initial floor failures was 
sufficient to cause a cascade of floor failures through the unheated floors down to Floor 5, 
diminishing the lateral support for Column 79 and two nearby columns, Column 80 and Column 
81, thus causing the columns to buckle and trigger a progressive collapse of the entire building. 
1.5 The UAF Team’s Approach to Examining the Structural Response of WTC 7 
The UAF research team utilized three approaches for examining the structural response 
of WTC 7 to the conditions that may have occurred on September 11, 2001. The findings and 
conclusions of each approach are described in Chapters 2, 3, and 4 respectively. 
1.5.1 Approach 1: Structural Response to Fire Loading 
First, we modeled the structural framing and simulated the local structural response to 
fire loading that may have occurred below Floor 13. Several factors warranted extra technical 
examination: 
