22 
a. WTC 7 was not symmetrical. Therefore, during collapse it would naturally sway 
towards the mass center for the floors. The mass center for the floors were initially 
evaluated and then used to examine the building’s response during collapse.  
b. The lack of combustibles was critically examined, as was the idea that primary 
damage by fires could occur on floors where financial centers were located. The 
questions we addressed were: Would this type of business have paper lying around or 
would privacy be most important and therefore paper stock locked in a fireproof safe? 
Why was a fire in this building so significant?  
c. We simulated fires in the building. The heat transfer characteristics for the steel 
framing with and without fireproofing was examined. We also studied how fire may 
have interacted with the concrete floors (in the flutes) and between flutes. We 
examined the steel frame response where the drop-down ceilings (acoustical tile) 
were hung below the floor system. We also studied the thermal conductivity of the 
concrete floors and their interaction with the steel beams and girders that made up the 
floor systems. The worst case for structural response to fire was to consider steel 
members without fireproofing and this was subsequently used to evaluate structural 
response.   
d. We prepared a detailed simulation of the floor slab connection to the beams and floor 
slab connection to the girders. These connections included non-composite (no shear 
connectors), fully composite case 1 (shear connectors between the floor slab and the 
girders only), fully composite case 2 (shear connectors between the concrete floor 
slab and both beams and girders), and a partially composite condition. We also 
simulated the connections between beams and girders, the connections between 
girders and columns, and the connections between beams and columns. These 
connection details are important as the connectivity significantly affects the structural 
response during fire and the deformation response due to self-weight and dynamic 
forces that occur during collapse.   
1.5.2 Approach 2: Evaluation of NIST’s Collapse Initiation Hypothesis  
Second, we supplemented our own simulation by evaluating the validity of NIST’s 
collapse initiation hypothesis and probable collapse sequence. In particular, we focused on 
