26 
2.1.3 Background Studies 
During this investigation, the research team studied several topics related to the collapse 
of WTC 7, including progressive collapse, nonlinear connection response, and heat transfer 
analysis through the concrete and steel floor system. The findings of these studies are briefly 
described in the following sections. 
2.1.3.1 Progressive Collapse  
Progressive collapse is a failure sequence where local failure leads to large-scale collapse 
in a structure (Lim, 2004). There are three types of local failures: material failure, buckling 
failure, and connection failure. Two types of propagation failure can occur: spread upwards and 
spread downwards. Propagation failure might spread upwards and/or sideways through the 
removal of supports and the impairment of the stability of the immediately superincumbent 
and/or adjacent structure. It might spread downwards primarily as a result of the impact loads of 
falling debris (Mainstone, 1973). 
Two types of approaches are used to simulate and evaluate progressive collapse. The 
direct design method uses the actual loads that initiate collapse of a primary structural member in 
order to evaluate whether collapse will be initiated. The alternate load path method removes one 
or several major structural bearing elements (i.e., introducing initiating damage) and analyzes the 
remaining structure to determine if this initiating damage propagates. The advantage of the 
alternate load path method is that it is independent of the initiating load, so the solution is valid 
for any type of hazard that causes member loss. 
Four analysis methods may be used for progressive collapse: linear-elastic static analysis, 
nonlinear static analysis, linear-elastic dynamic analysis, and nonlinear dynamic analysis. In 
progressive collapse analysis, a structure’s response is evaluated by starting with a simpler static 
methodology and then proceeding to increasingly complex analysis methods as necessary, until it 
is determined that the possibility of progressive collapse is low or until all available engineering 
methodologies are exhausted (Marjanishvili, 2004). 
In our study, axial nonlinear spring force-displacement curves were used to simulate 
shear, and rotational nonlinear springs were used to simulate a semi-rigid connection by using 
the moment-curvature relationship of a semi-rigid connection (see Figures 2.1 and 2.2). Both a 
static analysis and a linear dynamic time history analysis using the direct integration method 
were used to evaluate possible failure modes. We also checked this approach against a static non-
