iii 
EXTERNAL PEER REVIEWERS 
Gregory Szuladzinski, Ph.D 
Chartered Consulting Engineer 
Analytical Service Company 
 
Robert Korol, Ph.D 
Emeritus Professor of Civil Engineering 
McMaster University 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
We would like to thank Dr. Larry Hinzman, Vice Chancellor for Research, University of 
Alaska Fairbanks (UAF), for his encouragement and support and Marmian Grimes, Senior Public 
Information Officer, for her efforts to bring our research findings to the public. 
 
We would also like to thank the College of Engineering and Mines, the Department of 
Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE), and the Institute of Northern Engineering (INE) at 
the University of Alaska Fairbanks. In particular, we would like to thank the school for providing 
the graduate student support that was instrumental in conducting this research. 
 
We would also like to thank the personnel at INE for their help and encouragement. We 
especially want to thank Sandra Boatwright (Proposals and Publications Manager); Kathy 
Peterson (Grant Manager); Joan Welc-LePain (Proposal Coordinator); Joel Bailey (Research 
Professional) for his IT support; and Melanie Rohr (Web Designer) for her posting the work on 
the INE website. 
 
In addition to the university and its personnel, we would like thank Architects & 
Engineers for 9/11 Truth (AE911Truth) for providing the funding to conduct this research. We 
also want to thank John Thiel for approaching Dr. Hulsey to conduct this research. We also want 
to thank independent, external reviewers and the public who provided comments during a two-
month review period.  
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER 
This document is disseminated under the sponsorship of Architects & Engineers for 9/11 
Truth, in the interest of information exchange. Architects & Engineers for 9/11 Truth assumes no 
liability for use of the information contained in this document. Architects & Engineers for 9/11 
Truth does not endorse products or manufacturers. Trademarks or manufacturers’ names appear 
in this report only because they are considered essential to the objective of the document. 
Opinions and conclusions expressed or implied in the report are those of the authors. They are 
not necessarily those of the funding agency.  
