 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6C, WTC Investigation 1  
Chapter 1 
INTRODUCTION 
1.1 PURPOSE 
Simpson Gumpertz & Heger Inc. (SGH) developed finite-element models of the components, 
connections, and subsystems of the World Trade Center (WTC) towers to study their structural 
performance in the fire environment that followed the aircraft impact to the towers.  The results of this 
study were used to develop global models that ran efficiently and captured the important failure modes 
and sequential failures of components and subsystems and to determine the probable sequence of 
structural responses that let to the global collapse initiation. 
SGH performed this study as part of Project 6 of the investigation on the WTC disaster by the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).  This report constitutes the SGH’s report on Task 1 of the 
SGH contract with NIST and Part 1 of the SGH two-part report.  The Task 2 and 3 report deals with the 
global analysis of the WTC towers (NIST NCSTAR 1-6D1). 
1.2 SCOPE OF WORK 
SGH in Task 1 performed the following: 
• Developed and validated ANSYS models of the full floor and exterior wall subsystems. 
• Evaluated structural responses of components, connections, and subsystems to service loads 
due to gravity (dead and live loads) and elevated temperatures. 
• Identified the likely failure modes and failure sequences of components, connections, and 
subsystems. 
• Identified modeling details of the floor and exterior wall subsystems in the global models of 
the WTC towers. 
The analyses performed as part of this Task 1 report used the nominal dimensions and design details 
shown on the PANYNJ drawings2.  Material properties were based on information provided from the 
NIST Project 3 study (NIST NCSTAR 1-3, NIST NCSTAR 1-3D). 
1.3 REPORT ORGANIZATION 
This report consists of eight chapters: 
• Chapter 1 serves as an introduction to this report and describes purpose and scope of this 
study. 
                                                      
1 This reference is to one of the compani on documents from this Investigation.  A list of these documents appears in the Preface 
to this report. 
2 The technical data required to conduct the analyses of the WTC towers reported herein were obtained from drawings that were 
provided by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) and their contractors. 
 