Chapter 5 
 NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation 242
 
 
Figure 5–159.  This 
frame from a video shot 
from a building to the 
northwest of WTC 7 
was taken around 
5:20:17 p.m. with an 
uncertainty of ± 15 s. 
The intensities have been 
adjusted. 
 
 
 
5.6.4 Summary of Fire Spread Observations in WTC 7 
General 
Even though available images showing the fires in WTC 7 do not allow the detailed description of fire 
spread that was possible for the WTC towers (NCSTAR 1-5A), there is sufficient information to derive 
general descriptions of fire ignition and spread on various floors of the building.  Here, the observations 
of the previous two subsections are summarized.  At the end of the subsection, a number of fire maps 
derived from specific images are provided.  These maps are then utilized to derive summary maps for the 
east and north faces showing where fires were observed.  It must be kept in mind that the fire observations 
are based on images of the exterior faces.  These images provide little indication about the behavior of 
fires well removed from the exterior walls. 
By the time that imagery of the WTC 7 faces started to become available around 11:00 a.m., following 
the collapse of WTC 1, numerous vehicles around WTC 7 were on fire and burning intensely.  It is likely 
that nascent fires were also growing within WTC 7 around the same time, but direct visual evidence for 
fires in the building is not available until around noon.  Early fires were primarily observed on higher 
floors, even though the heavy smoke pouring from the large opening on the south face created by falling 
debris suggested fires were also present on lower floors. 
The evidence shows that early fires were ignited on the 19
th, 22nd, 29th, and 30th floors.  These fires were 
observed at the southwest corners.  The images indicate that, while these fires grew large enough to break 
nearby glass from windows and to spread to the north along the west face, they generally did not spread 
far before dying out.  Possibly, these fires covered larger areas along the south sides of the floors, but this 
could not be confirmed due to limited imagery and smoke obscuration.  There was no indication of fires 
on these floors later in the afternoon on the east, north, or west walls. 
