 WTC 7 Visual Evidence 
NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation  223
foreground.  Closer inspection shows that the glass in window 8-45B has also broken, and a telltale 
orange glow reveals that flames are also growing nearby.  The west edge of the fire area is in roughly the 
same location as earlier. 
A closer view of the 7th and 8th floors, taken from a video clip recorded shortly after the one from which 
Figure 5–136 was taken, is shown in Figure 5–137.  The frame includes the location on the 7th floor where 
fire spread had stopped.  There appears to be a wall visible through windows 7-47A and 7-47B that 
terminates at Column 47.  If this wall extended far enough inward, it might have stopped the fire as it 
spread eastward across the north face.  The glow through the open windows on the 8th floor reveals the 
presence of a substantial fire within this area.   However, the only actual flames that could be seen were in 
window 8-48D.  Either the flames responsible for the glow were hidden below the window sill or were 
located further inside the building.  It does not appear that the upper portion of the interior space near the 
windows was filled with flame.  It is thus not possible to identify whether this fire was flashed over. 
 
Figure 5–137.  Close 
up of the 6
th through 
9th floors of the north 
face of WTC 7 from a 
video shot between 
3:49:30 p.m. and 
3:54:30 p.m. near the 
corner of Greenwich 
Street and Park 
Place. 
The image intensities 
have been adjusted, 
and column locations 
are indicated. 
 
Figure 5–137 provides a good indication of how window glass breakage occurred in this area of the north 
face.  It seems that the glass would first break near the center, leaving a band of glass in the window 
frame.  Later, the remainder of the glass would fall out, leaving a fully open window frame.  The column 
enclosures were located about 6 in. behind the window glass.  Even so, they provided some protection for 
the glass since jagged-edged pieces with widths roughly the same as the enclosed columns often remained 
in the window frames.  A much closer view of this type of breakage is shown in Figure 5–138 for the 
glass around Column 48 on the 8
th floor.  This type of glass breakage near columns was widespread, as is 
evident in Figure 5–136. 
Some light smoke is visible coming from open windows on the 8th floor in Figure 5–137, but it is not as 
dense as would be expected for the amount of fire present.  Light blackening of the façade above 
windows on the 7th and 8th floors suggests that only light smoke had come from the area earlier.  Support 
for the hypothesis that smoke was being vented elsewhere comes from Figure 5–138.  Smoke is visible 
rising upward in windows 8-47B and 8-47D, while flames are visible in 8-47B.  Even though this internal 
smoke is easily seen, the only smoke flowing from the nearby open windows is coming from small flames 
