Chapter 5 
 NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation 218
fire was visible, and no smoke was coming from these windows at this time.  Recall that window 7-5 was 
already open by the time Figure 5–112 was taken between 2:15 p.m. and 2:30 p.m.  A part of the 
blackened façade above these windows can be seen in Figure 5–133, where it is also apparent that the 
louver in window 7-2 is still in place.  Apparently, the smoke flow from the louvered window was less 
than from the nearby open windows, since the façade is less darkened immediately above. 
The presence of an earlier fire on the 7
th floor that released substantial smoke near the northwest corner is 
consistent with the smoke seen in the area in Figure 5–113 (see associated discussion), which was 
estimated to have been taken between 2:15 p.m. and 2:45 p.m.  The observation of heavy burning on the 
8th floor much later supports the conclusion that the earlier smoke was coming from the 7th floor.  The fact 
that heavy smoke flowed from windows 7-1A to 7-4 suggests that when this area burned, there was no 
direct pathway to openings on the south or west walls, since the fire would have vented there, as observed 
elsewhere.  This hypothesis is not supported by the floor diagram shown in Chapter 3, which indicates 
that windows 7-1A to 7-4 were open to the same common area as windows further south.  The same 
conclusion concerning pathways to the south or east face applies for the 8th floor, since heavy smoke and 
flames were coming from the open windows on the west face. 
On the north face, every window on the 7th and 8th floors to the west of Column 51, with the exception of 
window 8-56A, was open at the time Figure 5–132 was taken.  This is the first visual evidence that fires 
had burned on these floors between Column 54 and the west edge of the face.  The only locations where 
flames can be seen are near Column 51 on the 8th floor.  Other clips shot around the same time show fire 
in windows 8-57B and 8-57C.  In Figure 5–130, intense burning was present between Columns 51 and 
54.  The fact that these fires had died down by the time of the later video clip indicates that many minutes 
separate the images in Figure 5–130 and Figure 5–132.  This is consistent with the assigned times. 
The open windows and fire distributions on the 7
th and 8th floors provide clues concerning fire movement. 
• On the 7th floor, the evidence indicates that an earlier fire spread up the western edge of the 
building.  Later fires were observed near the center of the north face moving toward the east.  The 
fact that fires had burned earlier on the west side suggests that the fire moving along the west side 
of the building turned at the northwest corner and began to spread toward the east.   
• A different movement is implied by the observations on the 8th floor.  A rapidly developing 
intense fire was first observed near the center of the north face.  By the time the western side of 
the north face was observed, fires in this area had already died down, but intense burning was 
present on the west face near the northwest corner, with flames also observed just to the east on 
the north face, suggesting that the initial fires that grew on the north side of the floor had 
originally bypassed the northwest corner of the floor, only spreading into this area many minutes 
later.  Either the area between windows 8-1A and 8-6 was protected by interior walls, or the fire 
initially reached the north face by an interior pathway that did not pass along the western edge of 
the floor.  The observation of heavy smoke and fire coming from these windows implies there 
was no interior flow path to the south and east faces, and could be an indication that interior walls 
were indeed present. 
Even though the open windows on the north sides of the 7
th and 8th floors visible in Figure 5–132 were 
clearly subjected to high temperatures, little blackening of the building façade above the windows is 
evident.  The only substantial blackening was near Column 51 on the 8
th floor.  As observed at other 