Chapter 3 
 NIST NCSTAR 1-9A, WTC Investigation 22
3.3.1 Beam and Girder Framing  
Most connection types in the model were floor framing connections (i.e., beams to girders and girders to 
columns). Shear connections were used at all interior floor framing connections. There were six shear 
connection types: fin (F), header (H), knife (K), seated web clip (SWC), seated top clip (STC), and seated 
top plate (STP) (see NIST NCSTAR 1-9, Section 2.4.3).  Fin, header, and knife connections connected 
the interior floor beams to the girders, and girders to interior columns except for the seated connections at 
Columns 79 and 81.  Seated connections were used to connect the floor beams and girders to the exterior 
columns and the north side of Column 79 and the south side of Column 81. Moment connections were 
used in the exterior framing and portions of the core framing at Floors 5 and 7 as part of the lateral load 
resisting system. 
Given a target element size of 0.15 m to 0.30 m (6 in. to 12 in.) within the LS-DYNA model, it was not 
possible to explicitly model the connections in fine detail. The connections were modeled with a 
simplified geometry, and connection material models were developed for the expected load capacity and 
ductility. Different connection models were developed for the actual construction geometry. Beam and 
girder connection models and their placement in the LS-DYNA model were based on information that 
NIST obtained from WTC 7 fabrication shop drawings and structural drawings. The framing connections 
included in the model are described in the following subsections. 
Fin, Knife, and Header Connections 
This section explains the modeling methodology for three distinct types of shear connections: fin (F), 
header (H) and knife (K). A schematic of each type is shown in Figure 3-2.  
In the LS-DYNA model, fin connections were developed first.  Fin connections were grouped by the 
depth of the beam web, which generally determined the number of bolts in the fin connection.  
A series of component calculations were performed to develop fin connection models for the depth-based 
groupings.  The idealized strength and ductility of fin connections (also known as shear tab connections) 
were obtained from a connection spring model developed by Sadek et al. (2008).  The spring model 
output by Sadek et al. (2008) included force-deflection results for the fin connection, based on the number 
of bolts. A simple LS-DYNA beam-column connection model was developed, as shown in Figure 3-3.   
The LS-DYNA fin models were calibrated to match the connection behaviors obtained from the spring 
model provided by Sadek et al. (2008).  The appropriate connection strength and ductility were obtained 
by adjusting the material behavior and failure strain for the connection tab.  A comparison of force-
deflection curves from the resulting shear model along with the spring model for the set of connections 
considered is shown in Figure 3-4.  A similar comparison of connection energy capacity is provided in 
Figure 3-5.  Good agreement of the spring and LS-DYNA fin models was obtained. 
 
 
 