Chapter 4  
46  NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  
The test load was applied to the assembly in a sequence that generally proceeded outward from the center 
of the deck.  First, empty water tubs were placed between the truss lines, starting at midspan and working 
symmetrically to the ends of the span.  Next concrete blocks were placed, working both truss lines 
simultaneously from mid-span symmetrically outward to the ends of the span.  After the concrete blocks 
were placed, the water tubs were filled to calculated depth. The hydraulic ram loads were applied last 
using four electric driven hydraulic pumps with pressure gauges. 
4.5 INSTRUMENTATION 
Prior to testing of each assembly, instrumentation was installed to measure vertical deflections of the 
unexposed surface and the bottom chords of the main trusses.  Instruments were also added to 
characterize the furnace environment as well as to measure temperature on the unexposed surface of the 
test assembly. 
4.5.1 Deflection Instrumentation 
The deflection on the unexposed surface was measured using nine transducers, located approximately at 
the center and quarter points in the long span direction and center and quarter points in the short span 
direction.  The locations of the deflection transducers are given in Appendix D for the 35 ft test 
assemblies and Appendix F for the 17 ft test assemblies. 
The deflection of the bottom chord of the main truss was measured at six locations by means of thin 
round bars, welded at one end to the bottom chord of the main truss and protruding through sleeves in the 
concrete slab.  Displacement transducers were attached to the rods and to a stationary frame.   To account 
for any thermal expansion of the round bar, 20 gauge Inconel thermocouples were attached approximately 
at the midpoint of the depth of the main truss to measure temperatures throughout the duration of the test. 
4.5.2 Furnace Thermocouples 
The furnace temperature at UL’s Toronto fire test facility was measured by means of twenty-four, 16 
gauge Type K thermocouples, sheathed in Inconel pipe symmetrically located in the furnace chamber.  
Sixteen furnace thermocouples, made from similar materials, were used at UL’s Northbrook furnace.  In 
addition to the furnace thermocouples required by the ASTM E 119 Standard, Wickstrom plate 
thermocouples and aspirated thermocouples were located at the level of the bottom chord of the main 
truss and at the valley of the steel form deck.  The locations of the aspirated and plate thermocouples are 
given in Appendix D for the 35 ft test assemblies and Appendix F for the 17 ft test assemblies.. 
The Wickstrom plate thermocouples were made of a stainless steel sheet, on which an 18 gauge Type K, 
Inconel sheathed thermocouple was attached to the back side.  An insulating pad, approximately 4 in. by 
4 in. by ¼ in. was placed over the thermocouple.  The non-insulated stainless steel side was positioned 
horizontally, receiving a furnace exposure similar to the tested assembly. 
The double walled aspirated thermocouple consisted of two concentric stainless steel tubes, 
approximately 0.435 in. ID and 0.1875 in. ID, with an 18 gauge Type K thermocouple bead located 
approximately ⅛ in. inside the end of the center tube.  Furnace gasses were drawn through both tubes past 