Chapter 5   
84 NIST NCSTAR 1-6C, WTC Investigation 
5.4.10 Simplified Truss Model 
The truss model was simplified for use in the full floor subsystem model.  Characteristics of the truss 
model captured by the simplified truss model were: (1) total horizontal reaction force under the thermal 
loading and (2) vertical deflection at midspan under the thermal loading.  The simplified truss model had 
the following features: 
• The geometry of the truss was preserved. 
• A pair of primary trusses at each exterior column was combined into one truss.  Cross 
sections of truss members were doubled. 
• The top and bottom chords and web diagonals were modeled by BEAM188 elements.  A 
member between two panel points was modeled by one element only. 
• Break elements modeled by ANSYS user-defined elements were used to model the following 
failure modes: (a) seat bolt shear-off, (b) gusset plate fracture, (c) truss walk-off, (d) web 
diagonal buckling/resistance weld failure, (e) failure of studs on the spandrel and strap 
anchors, and (f) weld failure between strap anchors and top chords.  User-defined break 
elements will be further discussed in Section 5.5.5. 
• Knuckles were not modeled by break elements.  It was found that neglecting knuckle failure 
did not significantly change truss behavior subjected to thermal loads. 
• Steel had temperature-dependent elastic and plastic material properties. 
• Creep in steel was included in the simplified truss model; however, it was not included when 
the simplified truss model was incorporated in the full floor model, because of convergence 
problems inherent in BEAM188 elements. 
• The concrete slab was modeled by SHELL181 elements with a temperature-dependent 
bilinear material model that had the same yield strength in both tension and compression.  
The yield strength was set to the compressive strength. 
• Construction sequence was not considered. 
Figure 5–38 shows the vertical deflection at midspan and the horizontal reaction at exterior columns of 
the truss model and simplified truss model subjected to the gravity load and the assumed thermal load 
described in Section 5.4.4.  Vertical displacement in this figure is the displacement that occurred during 
thermal loading.  The simplified truss model predicted the buckling of web diagonals at 530 ˚C, which is 
about 35 ˚C lower than the temperature at which web diagonal buckling was predicted by the truss model.  
The tension at 700 ˚C in the simplified truss model was about 2 kip, which was less than 10 kip in the 
truss model.  Overall truss behaviors as predicted by the simplified truss model subjected to gravity and 
the assumed thermal loading were in good agreement with the truss model. 