  Model Conversion From SAP to ANSYS 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6C, WTC Investigation 33  
4.2.2 Global Model Validation 
The translated ANSYS models were subjected to gravity dead and live loads and the results were 
compared to the results of SAP2000 global models (Figures 4–9 and 4–10).  This comparison was 
performed to verify the accuracy of the translation of the SAP2000 models into ANSYS.  The overall 
displaced shapes, the maximum displacements and vertical base reactions at each construction stage, and 
element forces for a set of randomly selected members from different parts of the buildings were 
compared. 
The gravity analysis consisted of three stages that simulated the construction sequence of the buildings.  
Stage 1 was the analysis of the parts of the towers up to and including Floor 106 under their self weight.  
In Stage 2, the members above Floor 106 in unstressed states were added to the parts of the towers up to 
and including Floor 106, which had already deformed under their self-weight, and the towers were 
subjected to and analyzed for the dead load of the newly added members.  In Stage 3, the towers were 
subjected to and analyzed for the additional load consisting of the superimposed dead load and 25 percent 
of the design live loads were added to the existing dead loads. 
Figures 4–11 and 4–12 compare the deformed shapes of WTC 1 and WTC 2 obtained from the translated 
ANSYS models to the ones obtained from the SAP models at the end of Stage 3 of the gravity analysis.  
Table 4–4 and Table 4–5 summarize the maximum displacement and vertical reactions at the base for all 
stages of the gravity analysis.  As can be seen, the deformed shapes and the maximum displacements and 
vertical reactions obtained from the analyses performed with the translated ANSYS models agree well 
with the results of the SAP analyses.  The maximum differences between the two models were less than 
1.4 percent for WTC 1 and 0.7 percent for WTC 2 for the displacements, and 1.2 percent for WTC 1 and 
0.3 percent for WTC 2 for the base reactions. 
Table 4–6 and Table 4–7 show the comparisons of the axial forces computed from ANSYS and SAP2000 
for a randomly selected set of elements from different parts of each building.  In Table 4–6 and Table 4–
7, the axial force values that are less then 0.5 kip are shown as 0.0 kip.  There is good agreement between 
the results obtained from ANSYS and SAP models.  
 
 
 