  Full Floor Subsystem 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6C, WTC Investigation 69  
5.4 TRUSS MODEL 
The truss model is a section of a floor system, which consists of a single floor truss and a corresponding 
section of the concrete slab.  The objectives of the truss model study were to: 
• Capture the potential failure modes and failure sequence of the truss model subjected to 
gravity load and temperature time histories, 
• Determine failure loads for different failure modes, and 
• Develop a simplified model that replicates the expected failure modes of the truss model for 
use in the full floor subsystem model. 
5.4.1 Model Description 
Figure 5–25 shows the truss model.  The truss model is a cut-out section of the office area floor system.  
A typical long-span truss designated C32T1 (SHCR 1973:WTC Drawing Book 7, Sheet AB1–2) was 
modeled.  The model used symmetry and included the following: 
• One of the two primary trusses at Column 143 at Floor 96 of WTC 1, 
• Two exterior columns (Columns 143 and 144) at the plane of symmetry with half the area 
and the moment of inertia and with a length of 24 ft (each column extends over the full height 
of a floor), 
• Part of the spandrel between the two planes of symmetry, 
• Part of the slab (40 in. wide) between the two plane of symmetry, 
• Strap anchor attached on one end to the truss top chord and the concrete slab and on the other 
end to the adjacent exterior column (Column 144), and 
• Halves of exterior and interior truss seats and the gusset plate at the exterior end. 
The slab was 4 in. thick lightweight concrete on 22 gauge steel deck with flutes 6.8 in. on center running 
parallel to the primary trusses.  Two layers of welded wire reinforcement were provided in the slab.  The 
reinforcement ratios were 0.21 percent and 0.735 percent in the directions parallel and transverse to the 
truss, respectively.  A flute was 2 in. wide at the top, 1.25 in. wide at the bottom, and 1.47 in. high. 
The finite element model of the concrete slab had an equivalent thickness of 4.35 in.  By using the 
equivalent thickness, the bending stiffness in the direction transverse to the truss became about 15 percent 
higher than the actual stiffness.  However, since the bending in the transverse direction to the truss was 
small, the concrete slab was modeled as an isotropic plate.  The steel deck and the welded wire fabric 
were not included in the truss model either explicitly or implicitly by modification of concrete stress-
strain relationship.  The concrete slab was modeled with four layers of 3-D eight-node structural solid 
(SOLID185) elements.  The Hjelm plasticity model as described in Section 3.1.2 was used for the solid 
elements that allowed different “yield strengths” in tension and compression.   
The top chord of truss C32T1 consisted of double angles of 1 1/2 × 2 × 0.25 (long legs horizontal), and 
the bottom chord consisted of double angles of 3 × 2 × 0.37 (long legs horizontal).  Web diagonal 
members were round bars of either 1.09 in. or 1.14 in. diameter.  Most web diagonal members had a 
1.09 in. diameter. 
The top and bottom chords and the web diagonals were modeled by BEAM189 elements with 
temperature-dependent elastic, plastic, and creep material properties.  Top and bottom chords were 