  Full Floor Subsystem 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6C, WTC Investigation 71  
Elastic BEAM44 elements were used to model the exterior columns.  Elastic SHELL63 elements were 
used to model the spandrel. 
A camber of 2.0 in. at midspan was not included in the truss model.   
5.4.2 Failure Modes 
Two possible failure modes were identified for the truss model: 
Sagging of Truss: The top and bottom chords and web diagonals were exposed to the hot gas layer that 
accumulated below the floor slab.  The steel in the truss exhibited stiffness degradation, yield strength 
reduction, plastic softening, and creep at high temperatures.  A truss with softened chords and diagonals 
would sag.  As the concrete slab was heated, its stiffness and strength were reduced, especially at its 
bottom layer where temperatures were the highest due to exposure to hot gas and around the knuckles 
where concrete temperature rose by conduction through the steel. 
In addition to direct thermal effects, sagging and weakening of the truss were caused by the following 
component failures: 
• Buckling of web diagonal members, 
• Yielding of the chord members, 
• Knuckle failure and loss of composite action between the concrete slab and the steel truss 
(see Section 5.3), and/or 
• Weld failure between the web diagonal members and the chord members. 
Loss of Truss Support: The truss can fail by loss of support.  Loss of support at either the exterior or 
interior truss seats was caused by the loss of vertical shear capacity of the seats at elevated temperatures 
or by the truss walking-off the seat due to large sagging. 
As discussed in Section 5.4.3, the bottom chord of the truss model was restrained in the direction 
transverse to the truss at the bridging truss locations.  Although the out-of-plane deformation of the 
bottom chord due to thermal expansion of bridging trusses may result in a reduction of the vertical load 
capacity of a primary truss, the use of symmetry in the truss model prevents its application to cases with 
lateral loads.  The interaction between the bridging trusses and the primary trusses was captured in the full 
floor model. 
5.4.3 Boundary Conditions 
Boundary conditions for the truss model are shown in Fig. 5–26. 
The entire top chord of the truss was restrained against lateral movement in the x direction.  The bottom 
chord was restrained against lateral movement in the x direction at four bridging truss locations.  The two 
edges of the concrete slab parallel to the truss were restrained against rotations about the y and z axes, but 
were free in the x direction. 
The interior truss seat was fixed in all directions.  The exterior truss seat was attached to the spandrel.  
The truss was supported by break elements to capture failure modes of the truss seats, and break elements 
were connected to beam elements representing the seats. 
The exterior end of the slab was tied to the spandrel by contact elements to prevent the slab from 
penetrating the spandrel and break elements representing tension and shear failures of the spandrel stud.  