5 
 
Abstract 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) conducted a series of four 
standard fire resistance tests of the composite floor system used in the World Trade 
Center (WTC) towers. These tests were conducted as part of NIST’s investigation into 
the collapse of the WTC towers. The main objectives of these tests were to understand 
the effects of three key factors on the fire behavior of composite floor systems during fire 
exposure. These factors were: a) thickness of fireproofing on steel, b) test restraint 
conditions, and c) scale of the test (e.g., full scale vs. reduced scale). Two tests were 
conducted using full-scale test specimens while two other tests were conducted using 
reduced-scale test specimens. In this report, only the results from the two full-scale tests 
are discussed and compared against numerical predictions. These two thermally-similar 
fire resistance tests were conducted by the Underwriters Laboratories (UL) of Canada by 
exposing a composite floor system to the heating profile (time-temperature curve) 
specified in the ASTM E119 standard. In these tests, the fire environment was well 
controlled and measured. Also, the temperature and deflection data were recorded at 
sufficient number of locations to characterize the structural performance of the test 
assemblies over time. Since a large set of well controlled measurements (both thermal 
and structural) are available, data from these tests were used for development and 
evaluation of numerical models to understand the thermal and structural behavior of 
composite floor systems during fire exposure. 
This report summarizes the characterization of the furnace thermal environment and 
thermal behavior of members during the fire tests. Additionally, numerical results from a 
heat transfer finite element model of a representative section of the floor system are 
compared against data obtained in the full-scale tests to evaluate the finite element heat 
transfer model. Future work will focus on determining uncertainties in predicting 
temperatures of structural members using experimental data collected during NIST’s 
WTC fire resistance tests. 