34 
 
6 Summary 
 
An analysis of the measured temperatures of the main trusses in the two full-scale fire 
resistance tests showed that the steel web members heated faster than the bottom and top 
chord members and at the end of the test, the steel web members recorded the highest 
temperatures. On the whole, the restrained test (Test 1) showed higher variability in 
recorded steel temperatures than that in the unrestrained test (Test 2). This is because 
there was less cracking and spalling of concrete in the unrestrained test. Additionally, top 
chord temperatures in the restrained test showed wide variability especially toward the 
end of the fire tests. This conclusion can be drawn based on large values of standard 
deviations obtained. 
An ANSYS heat transfer model was developed with appropriate thermophysical 
properties and model parameters (e.g., boundary conditions, initial conditions etc.) to 
predict the thermal behavior of the structural members. The heat transfer model was 
evaluated by comparing the time-dependent evolution of measured mean temperatures at 
lower chord, mid-web, and upper chord positions along four specific locations of the 
main trusses with average computed temperatures. For the bottom chord and mid-web 
locations, the agreement between measured and ANSYS temperatures was within 15% 
for both tests. For the top chord, the agreement was within 10% until about 60 minutes 
for Test 1, when concrete spalling occurred. For Test 2, the agreement at the top chord 
was within 10% for all locations except at location I, where the disagreement was 
substantial. The cause of this disagreement is not clear but it could possibly be attributed 
to the fact that the bridging truss acted as a thermal sink and that it was not included in 
the model.  
Measured steel temperatures during fire tests indicated that the variation in temperatures 
among top chord, web diagonal, and bottom chord members was substantial. Also, there 
was large temperature variation along the length of the steel truss, which varied as tests 
progressed. These observations suggest that both initial conditions (variations in 
composition and geometry) and time varying boundary conditions (including the 
handling of material loss/transformation) are necessary to consider in order to predict the 
temporal and spatial variations of steel temperatures. 
The present study provided the following information: 
• A brief statistical evaluation of the thermal data recorded during the two full scale 
fire tests 
• A practical approach for computing average temperatures at several positions 
along the main trusses (where measured temperature data were available) and a 
quantitative evaluation of the thermal model. 
• A quantitative assessment of the agreement between the numerical and 
experimental results at several times into the tests. 
For both tests, the modeled temperatures at the lower chord level were higher than the 
measured temperatures for most locations suggesting that error is systematic; however, at 