20 
 
• 34 ˚C and 76 ˚C at the mid-web at 30 minutes and 90 minutes respectively in Test 
1 and 85 ˚C and 79 ˚C at the mid-web at 30 minutes and 90 minutes respectively 
in Test 2. 
• 74 ˚C and 124 ˚C at the bottom chord at 30 minutes and 90 minutes respectively 
in Test 1 and 38 ˚C and 167 ˚C at the bottom chord at 30 minutes and 90 minutes 
respectively in Test 2. 
• 46 ˚C and 128 ˚C at the top chord at 30 minutes and 90 minutes respectively in 
Test 1 and 38 ˚C and 77 ˚C at the top chord at 30 minutes and 90 minutes 
respectively in Test 2. 
These data indicate that the time-dependent variation of temperatures along the length of 
a member must be considered in conducting structural analysis during fire tests. One 
conclusion that can be drawn from the above discussion is that concrete spalling 
contributes significantly to the overall uncertainty in steel member temperatures. 
Variabilities in member thermophysical properties, fire/member heat exchange 
parameters, and gas temperatures must be considered to determine the overall 
uncertainties in member temperatures. 
 
 
4 Heat Transfer Modeling 
 
A finite element model of the composite floor system described in section 2.1 was 
developed using the ANSYS finite element software. The dimensions of the model were 
taken from Ref. [2]. The purpose of the heat transfer model is to simulate the transient 
heat diffusion in the fire-exposed composite floor system. The heat transfer model was 
used to compare model predictions of temperatures at a few locations in the floor system 
with experimental measurements. Thermal data predicted by this validated heat transfer 
model will be later used in a structural analysis model for predicting the time-dependent 
behavior of the floor system due to both thermal and gravity loads. 
 
In this section, the following topics are covered: 
1) Details of the methodology used to develop the heat transfer model 
2) Description of input data used for thermophysical properties of materials in the 
floor system and the boundary and initial conditions 
3) A brief description of the approach used to interpolate temperature values (which 
are compared with experimental measurements) 
 
 
4.1 Methodology 
 
A finite element model of the composite floor system shown in Figure 2 was constructed 
by including the following: 