23 
 
boundary condition is the only difference between Test 1 and Test 2 from the thermal 
modeling perspective. All nodes in the model were assigned an initial temperature of 
25 ˚C. The input temperatures to the model are the ASTM E119 time-temperature curve 
assigned to the reference node as described in the previous section. This essentially 
assigns the furnace heating to this reference node. All exposed surfaces exchange 
convective and radiative heating with this node. 
 
 
4.3 Interpolation of Temperatures 
 
The numerical model predictions can be compared with measured time-temperature data 
at locations A, C, E, and I along the main truss (see Figure 2). These comparisons are 
performed at the upper chord, mid-web, and the lower chord for these four locations. 
However, often there is not a node at the exact location where a thermocouple was 
positioned. In order to obtain a simulated temperature at the measurement point, 
interpolation of temperatures was done as described in the following paragraphs.  
 
 
 
Figure 13. Schematic illustration of the averaging approach used to interpolate 
temperatures. 
 
The model predictions of temperature at a given location along the truss (e.g., A, C, E, or 
I in Fig. 2) are obtained as shown schematically in Figure 13. For example, temperature 
at the position of interest (e.g., P at the bottom chord in Figure 13) is obtained by taking a 
weighted average of temperatures of all the FEM nodes available nearest to the point P 
on either side. In other words, first average temperatures at X and Y are obtained by 
finding the mean temperatures of all the nodes at X and Y (e.g., through the entire 
sections at X and Y). Then the temperature at the point of interest (P) is estimated by 
finding a weighted average of computed mean temperatures at X and Y using the proper 
distance of P from both locations X and Y. A script was written in ANSYS parametric 
design language (APDL) to output these temperatures as functions of time for the desired 
locations along the truss for upper chord, mid-web, and lower chord positions. These 
Y 
X 
P 