21 
 
a. One steel main truss (without end supports) including the top chord, web 
diagonals, and the bottom chord. 
b. Concrete slab (above the main truss) spanning the entire truss length and half the 
furnace width of 2.15 m (see Figure B1 in Appendix B). 
 
 
Note that only one main truss shown in Figure 2 was modeled in this study. Bridging 
trusses were not included. The spray applied fire resistive material (SFRM) was 
considered to be uniformly applied over the steel truss (no fireproofing was applied on 
the top surface of the top chord). Additionally, the exposed surface of the slab was 
assumed to have an overspray of SFRM of about 19 mm. Note that the profiled steel 
metal deck was not specifically modeled since the metal deck is only 0.9 mm thick, while 
the slab is about 130 mm thick. Moreover, Lamont’s [6] results did not show a significant 
difference in the temperature prediction in the slab when a metal deck was specifically 
modeled in comparison with the case when the metal deck was not included. 
 
The finite element model of the composite floor assembly was developed using 3-D solid 
thermal elements (SOLID 70 element in ANSYS), which have eight nodes with a single 
degree of freedom (temperature) at each node. The truss upper chords and lower chords 
were connected with the web members using conduction link elements (Link 33 element 
in ANSYS). These are uniaxial elements that can be used to model the transient heat 
transfer between the end nodes. Use of link elements allows the diagonals to be meshed 
independently of the upper and lower chords and resulted in the minimum possible 
volumes in the model. Figures B1 and B2 (Appendix B) show the FE (finite element) 
model in detail. Note that adequate numbers of elements had to be used through the depth 
of each material to ensure that at least two free nodes existed at each section and that 
steep thermal gradients, if any, are handled correctly in the model. 
 
During fire exposure, heat exchange occurs by both convection and radiation. At higher 
temperatures, radiation plays a more dominant role in thermal exchange. The convective 
heat exchange is addressed by the Newtonian heating/cooling mechanism. The radiative 
heat exchange is defined by the Stefan-Boltzmann law, which includes a parameter called 
“view factor”. The view factor is defined by the proportion of the radiation that leaves a 
surface (e.g., surface A) that strikes another surface (e.g., surface B). It can assume 
values from 0 to 1. 
  
In order to simulate the furnace heating in the UL tests, the exposed surfaces of the 
composite floor system were subjected to convective and radiative heat exchanges. In 
order to accomplish this, surface effect elements were generated in ANSYS and overlaid 
on the exposed surfaces of the solid elements. This is because only one type of thermal 
surface load can be applied to a given entity in ANSYS. For example, one cannot apply 
both a flux and a convection boundary condition directly to the faces of an element. 
Surface effect elements allow the use of multiple surface loads to a given element face. 
Two types of surface effect elements were created: one for the convective heat exchange 
and the other for the radiative heat exchange. All of these surface effect elements were 
created with a particular reference node. For the convective surface elements, the fluid 