7 
 
exposure to elevated temperatures in fire is resisted by forces external to the element. On 
the other hand, an element is free to expand and rotate at its supports in an unrestrained 
test. In this section, a brief description is provided about the test specimens, test furnace, 
instrumentation, and test procedure pertaining to the two full-scale tests.  
 
 
2.1 Test Specimen 
 
The floor system for the WTC towers consisted of a lightweight concrete floor slab acting 
compositely with steel trusses bridging between the building’s core columns and exterior 
wall columns. The main composite trusses, which were used in pairs, spanned either 60 
ft.
1 (18.3 m) or 35 ft. (10.7 m) Steel double angles formed the top and bottom chords of 
the trusses while round bars were used for the web diagonals. Additionally, the floor 
system included bridging trusses perpendicular to the main trusses.  
 
Passive fire protection was provided by spray applied fire resistive material (SFRM), 
commonly referred to as “fireproofing,” applied directly to the steel members of the 
trusses. Fireproofing thickness was specified to be 0.75 in. (19 mm). Figure 1(a) shows a 
cut-away of the floor system illustrating the main trusses, bridging trusses, metal deck, 
and concrete floor slab used in the WTC towers. Figure 1(b) shows a cross-sectional view 
of the basic configuration of the truss floor system.  
 
Trusses used in the WTC towers were fabricated from ASTM A242 grade steel [2]. Since 
this steel was no longer available, ASTM A572 Grade 50 steel was found to be an 
acceptable substitute by NIST based on a comparison of thermal and mechanical 
properties of both steels. For the full-scale fire resistance tests, ASTM A572 Grade 50 
steel test specimens were constructed to model the 35 ft. (10.7 m) span floor trusses. The 
deck consisted of 1½ in. (38.1 mm). deep 22 gauge galvanized sheet metal floor units. 
Compressive strength of the concrete floor slab was specified to be 3000 psi (20.7 MPa). 
The sprayed fire resistive material used on the test assemblies was BLAZE-SHIELD 
Type DC/F, which is manufactured by Isolatek International. The SFRM was applied to a 
thickness of ¾ in. (19 mm). with close tolerances of approximately ±1/16 in. (1.6 mm). 
The test specimen comprised two main trusses, two bridging trusses, and a floor deck 
(Figure 2). 
 
Two full-scale standard fire resistance tests were conducted at the Underwriters 
laboratories fire testing facilities: 
 
1. Test 1: restrained test condition. 
2. Test 2: unrestrained test condition. 
 
 
                                                 
1 The policy of NIST is to use the International System of Units (metric units) in all publications. In this 
document, however, units are presented in metric units or the inch-pound system, whichever is prevalent in 
the discipline. 