22 
 
bulk temperature was designated as that of the reference node and appropriate convective 
heat transfer coefficients were used (see the next section). For the radiative heat 
exchange, surface effect elements were created with a reference node. An imposed 
temperature constraint (e.g., furnace heating following the ASTM E119 curve) was 
specified on this node. A resultant emissivity value was specified while creating these 
surface effect elements. The resultant emissivity includes proper emissivity values of the 
receiving and emitting surfaces. View factor effects in the radiation heat transfer were not 
considered, since the furnace was not explicitly modeled in this study and therefore, view 
factor values were set to 1 for all elements.  
 
 
4.2 Thermophysical Properties, Boundary and Initial Conditions 
 
Thermophysical properties for materials used in the model (e.g., steel, concrete, and 
SFRM) are taken from Ref. [7] and are listed in both tabular and graphical forms in 
Appendix A. Note that temperature-dependent values of materials properties were used. 
The three thermophysical properties that are needed for thermal analysis are: density, 
specific heat, and thermal conductivity.  
 
Proper boundary conditions are needed to model the heat transfer to/from the floor 
system both at the exposed and unexposed surfaces (e.g., at the bottom and top surfaces 
of the slab). For the convective surface effects elements at the exposed surface, a 
convective heat transfer coefficient is specified. A value of 25 W/m
2/K has often been 
used [8]. Lamont et al. [6] used a base value of 23 W/m2/K, with minimum and 
maximum values of 5 W/m2/K and 30 W/m2/K in their sensitivity analysis. Lamont et al. 
suggested using a lower value of this heat transfer coefficient when the profiled metal 
deck is not explicitly modeled. This is because the profiled metal deck is known to 
separate from the rest of the concrete slab during progression of a fire event, thereby 
creating a gap that reduces the convective heat transport at the exposed surface of the 
slab. In this analysis, a value of 15 W/m2/K was used for the convective heat transfer 
coefficient since the profiled metal deck was not modeled this study.  
 
The effective emissivities for radiative heat exchange at the exposed surface depend on 
many factors such as flame emissivity, compartment walls, etc. For the surface emissivity 
of the steel member, a value of 0.7 is used. At the exposed surface of the slab, a value of 
0.6 is used for effective emissivity as recommended by Lamont [6]. This value is slightly 
different from that of steel and was used as the metal deck was not explicitly modeled in 
this study. This is because of the air gap that forms at the interface between metal deck 
and concrete slab. Lamont found very good agreement between modeled and measured 
concrete slab temperatures when this value of emissivity was used.  
 
Note that adiabatic boundary conditions were maintained at each end of the model in the 
longitudinal direction of the truss. Average time-temperature values for different 
segments on the unexposed surface of the concrete slab as determined from recorded 
thermocouple data during the two fire tests were used as Dirichlet boundary conditions 
(time varying) for nodes on the unexposed surface of the concrete slab. Note that this 