35 
 
both the top chord and mid-web level the deviation of measured temperatures from the 
ANSYS temperatures were not systematic. This indicates that the concrete slab (along 
with its variability of thermal properties due to time varying moisture levels) possibly 
plays a strong role in influencing the thermal behavior of steel members near its 
proximity. Note that the effects of moisture on concrete thermophysical properties and 
moisture migration in concrete were not included in the model. 
The apparent dislodgement of SFRM at the top chord was incorporated in the ANSYS 
heat transfer model. By varying the length and depth of SFRM that was dislodged at 
specific locations, an agreement between the numerical and measured temperatures was 
achieved at four locations on the upper chord along a main truss. Such analysis can 
provide approximate information about the effect of dislodgement of SFRM on steel 
temperatures and a quantitative estimate of the extent of SFRM dislodgement may be 
possible by comparing modeled and measured temperatures using a trial and error 
approach or conducting an optimization procedure with a proper objective function. 
The variability of the recorded steel temperatures highlights the need for characterization 
of uncertainties in predicting temperature histories of structural elements exposed to a 
damaging fire. Sources of variability may be: 
• Moisture level in the concrete slab 
• Applied thickness of SFRM on steel truss elements 
• Dislodgement of SFRM (extent and thickness) 
• Presence (amount) of overspray 
• Non-uniform heating as a result of variation in view factors as well as the 
effective radiative temperature and volume emittance.  
 
The time-temperatures data predicted by the numerical model are used in a structural 
model to study the effects of fire on the mechanical behavior of composite floor systems. 
The numerical heat transfer model needs to be improved by incorporating the most 
accurate data for both geometric changes in fire and thermophysical properties and heat 
transfer parameters such that predicted results are within 10 ˚C (approximately) of 
measured temperatures especially at temperatures exceeding 400 ˚C . This is because 
mechanical properties of steel (e.g., Young’s modulus, yield strength etc.) decrease 
sharply when temperatures exceed 400 ˚C.  Accurate predictions of the thermal field will 
enhance the fidelity of structural predictions. 
  
Sensitivity studies need to be conducted to determine the most important factors 
contributing to the variability in recorded temperatures. Determining uncertainties in 
time-dependent temperature histories of structural members in fire is necessary for 
predicting structural behavior in fire with a certain level of confidence.  
 
 