11 
 
 
3 Experimental Results 
 
 
3.1 General Observations of Tests 
 
In Test 1, loud noises (described as “reports” in [2]) were heard beginning roughly fifteen 
minutes after the start of the test (see Appendix C for a log of observations throughout 
these tests). These loud reports continued and were often accompanied by noticeable 
bulging of the metal deck and the dislodging of deck fireproofing. It is believed that these 
loud noises were associated with spalling of the concrete on the underside of the slab.  
 
Reports were also heard during Test 2, of the 35 ft. (10.7 m) unrestrained specimen, but 
were not as loud as those observed during Test 1. Post-test inspection of the top of the 
concrete slab showed very little cracking. Since there was a gap between the concrete 
slab and the test frame, thermal expansion of the slab did not produce a state of stress that 
resulted in significant and sudden cracking and crushing similar to this test. Appendix C 
and D provides a log of the reports observed during the tests. 
 
 
3.2 Furnace Thermal Environment 
 
In addition to the 24 sheathed thermocouples that were used to measure and monitor 
furnace temperatures, furnace temperatures were also measured with plate and aspirated 
thermocouples. Plate thermocouples are used to measure gas temperatures with a surface 
similar in terms of emissivity, size, and orientation to the specimen surface. Aspirated 
thermocouples help decrease the magnitude of error by reducing the radiative exchange 
between the thermocouple and its surroundings. In fact, temperatures measured by 
aspirated thermocouples are closer to the true gas temperatures [5].  
 
Figures 4 and 5 show the temperatures measured by plate and aspirated thermocouples 
respectively.  It is evident from these figures that the thermal environment in these two 
tests was similar. 
 
Since thermal radiation is the dominant form of heat transfer, especially at elevated 
temperatures, heat flux measurements provide a better indication of how quickly a 
specimen will heat than gas temperatures. For Test 2, radiometer readings were not 
available, due to damage to the radiometers. For Test 1, the radiative heat flux was about 
60 kW/m
2 at the end of 104 minutes, after which the heat flux data showed wide 
fluctuation and data became unreliable (Figure 6). A dip in the curve at about 50 minutes 
into the test indicates that the probes recorded a lower radiative heat flux. A change in 
“view factors” resulting possibly from concrete spalling around that time could have 
contributed to a lower value of heat flux recorded (see the log of the test in Appendix C). 
 