32 
 
 
5.3 Effect of SFRM Dislodgement 
 
As shown in Figure 9(a) through 9(d), the top chord temperatures for the two tests show 
similar heating trends on average. However, the reduction in the thickness of SFRM as a 
result of dislodgement possibly resulted in the sudden increase in the recorded 
temperatures for a few locations for Test 1. The aim in this section is to demonstrate an 
approach for estimating the effect of SFRM dislodgement at specific locations. 
 
The analysis of Test 1 showed significant effects of concrete spalling on temperatures at 
the top chord (Figure 9). ANSYS simulation was interrupted according to the timeline 
corresponding to the loud reports indicated in the log of observations [Appendix A and 
B] and 2 ft. (0.61 m) to 3 ft. (0.91 m) of SFRM in length were removed from the model at 
these locations. ANSYS simulation was then restarted and continued until the occurrence 
of the next loud report. A trial and error approach was followed to determine the range of 
possible amounts of SFRM dislodgement presumed to occur at each location. A 
schematic of SFRM dislodgement from the model is shown in Figure 20. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20: A schematic of the SFRM removal at locations A, C, I, and E in Test 1. 
 
 
For Test 1, at 3800 s, 0.5 in. (12.7 mm) of SFRM was removed at location A and 0.75 in. 
(19 mm) of SFRM was removed at locations I and E. Simulation was then restarted and 
continued until 4500 s, when 0.75 in. (19 mm). of SFRM was removed at location C and 
then simulation was restarted. Figure 21 shows a comparison of computed and 
experimental data at the four locations along the top chord in Test 1. For locations C and 
E, computed results are also shown for the hypothetical case of SFRM remaining intact. 
As expected, the temperature plots (for this case of SFRM remaining intact) continue 
along the “ANSYS simulated, SFRM removed” curves before abrupt heating took place 
during the onset of dislodgement of SFRM (see dashed plots for ANSYS simulation for 
locations C and E in Figure 21). 
 
 
SFRM Removed 
C 
A 
I E 