6 
 
 
1 Introduction 
 
Predicting structural behavior under fire requires an accurate modeling of (a) thermal 
environment in a fire, (b) heating of structural elements exposed to hot gases from fire, 
and (c) structural response to both thermal and gravity loads. There are uncertainties 
associated with the computed results in each of these steps, which propagate from one 
step to the next. In analyzing uncertainty propagation, the goal is to determine how 
random variation, lack of knowledge, or error affects the sensitivity, performance, or 
reliability of the system that is being modeled. The predicted results need to provide 
time-dependent temperatures in structural members during a fire event, along with the 
associated uncertainties.  
 
A comparison of numerical predictions of the temperature field against carefully 
controlled fire resistance experiments can provide insight into the uncertainties associated 
with prediction of the temperature histories of structural elements exposed to fire. 
However, data from such well controlled full-scale fire resistance tests are difficult to 
obtain from the literature. Since a rich set of data from the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology (NIST)’s fire resistance tests of composite floor systems is available, 
validation efforts have been focused on these tests. Toward this end, a finite element heat 
transfer model of the composite floor truss section was constructed in ANSYS [1] to 
model the heating profile of the structural members exposed to the standard fire.  
 
Although the details of each fire resistance test are described in ref. [2], a brief summary 
of the thermal behavior of steel members and characterization of the furnace environment 
are provided here. In this report, the experimental set up and the fire resistance tests are 
described first. Then experimental results collected at several locations in the trusses and 
furnace are presented. A brief statistical analysis of member temperatures measured 
during the full-scale tests is then provided. Finally, numerical results from the heat 
transfer model are compared against experimental data. A quantitative estimate of the 
agreement between the experimental and simulation results is then provided. Future work 
will focus on estimating uncertainties in member temperatures. 
 
2 Description of the Fire Resistance Tests 
 
As part of its investigation into the collapse of the World Trade Center (WTC) towers, 
NIST conducted four fire resistance tests of composite floor systems (two full-scale and 
two reduced-scale). These tests were carried out by Underwriters Laboratories (UL) by 
subjecting composite floor systems to the heating profile (time-temperature curve) 
specified in the ASTM E-119 standard in a test furnace. 
 
The tests were conducted in both restrained and unrestrained condition to study the 
performance of the floor systems under the standard fire exposure. Note that in a 
restrained test, thermal expansion at the supports of a load carrying element due to 