Chapter 10  
 NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation 392
and typical of fully engulfing enclosure fires.  Given the limited guidance from the visual evidence, the 
Investigation Team estimated that a 10 percent change was within the uncertainty in the extent and 
intensity of the fires.  In Case C, the Case A gas temperatures were decreased by 10 percent, again 
consistent with the expected range of realistic and reasonable fires in WTC 7 on September 11, 2001. 
10.3.2 Case A 
Two visualizations of the results were developed: with and without the opaque concrete floor slabs.  Note 
that the simulations themselves always included the slabs. 
Figure 10–2 shows the thermal data generated with FSI and subsequently transferred to the ANSYS and 
LS-DYNA structural models for analysis (Chapters 11 and 12).  The figure shows the exterior and core 
columns extending from the ground level to Floor 16. The figure also shows the beams and concrete floor 
slabs. Only a fraction of the entire model is visible because of the concrete slabs.  As noted above, the 
simulations showed essentially no thermal gradient across the thickness of the steel components.  The 
depicted slab temperatures are in the midpoint of the uppermost thermal element.  For the 7th floor slab, 
this was approximately 12.5 mm (0.5 in.) below the top surface; for the other floors, this was 
approximately 6 mm (0.25 in.) below the top surface. 
FSI generated temperature histories at 30 min intervals for the ANSYS structural analyses and at a single 
point in time (corresponding to the collapse initiating event) for the LSDYNA analyses.  Due to 
differences in the ANSYS and LS-DYNA models, the thermal data were prepared separately for each 
analysis. 
The ANSYS model, which was specifically developed to capture the effects of fire on the structural 
system of Floors 7 to 14, used beam elements to model the steel framing and shell elements with 5 layers 
to model the concrete slab (see Chapter 11).  Five temperatures, evenly spaced through the slab depth, 
were provided at each node in the concrete slab shell elements to capture the nonlinear temperature 
profile through the depth of the slab.  Since steel temperatures were nearly the same across column 
sections, a uniform temperature was supplied at each node of the columns.  The beam elements could 
model a linear temperature gradient across the section, but a uniform temperature was determined to be a 
reasonable approximation for the temperature profile in the beam and girder sections.  A linear gradient 
across the beam depth would have either underestimated the temperature across the web or would have 
overestimated the temperature in the bottom flange. Additionally, the top flange of the floor beams was 
located near the neutral axis of the composite floor section, and had little influence on the flexural 
response of the floor system.  For these reasons, a uniform temperature across the depth of the beam and 
girder sections was selected. 
The LS-DYNA model, which was specifically developed to capture the response of the 47 story building 
to an initiating event, primarily used shell elements to model the steel framing and concrete slab (see 
Chapter 12).  The LS-DYNA model used the structural temperatures as an initial condition for the 
collapse progression analysis. A single set of temperatures was provided at the time that the ANSYS 
analysis predicted that a collapse initiating event was imminent.  Since steel temperatures were nearly the 
same across column sections and approximated as uniform across the beam and girder sections, a single 
temperature was supplied for each node of the columns, girders, and floor beams.  Since the LS-DYNA 