 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation 9  
Chapter 4 
FLOOR TEST ASSEMBLIES 
4.1 DESIGN OF TESTS 
For floor and roof assemblies, the ASTM E 119 Standard requires that the area exposed to fire be a 
minimum of 180 ft2 and that neither dimension of the furnace be less than 12 ft.  Furnaces available today 
(2005) in the United States for conducting standardized fire resistance tests of floor and roof assemblies 
have a maximum span less than 18 ft (Beitel 2002).  Traditionally, relatively light construction floor 
assemblies have been tested, and results have been scaled to practical floor system dimensions. 
4.1.1 Span of Test Assembly 
The floor system used in the World Trade Center (WTC) spanned either 35 ft or 60 ft.  The Underwriters 
Laboratories of Canada fire testing facility in Toronto (ULC) has a furnace with nominal dimensions of 
35 ft by 14 ft, thereby allowing full-scale tests of the 35 ft span floor assemblies.  For this series of tests, 
the floor truss designated on Laclede drawings as C32T5 was selected.  This truss type was the most 
common 35 ft-span truss in the floors affected by the aircraft impact and subsequent fires (see Appendix 
G of NIST NCSTAR 1-2A). 
As noted in Section 1.1, one of the motivations for conducting the standard fire resistance tests was to 
determine the technical basis for the selection of the SFRM for the WTC floor trusses and of the thickness 
to achieve a 2 h rating.  Since test furnaces available at the time of the initial design of the WTC towers 
had a maximum span on the order of 18 ft, it would have been impractical to test a full-scale assembly 
although that possibility was raised in discussions between the Port Authority, the building designer, and 
steel truss fabricator (see NIST NCSTAR 1-6A).  In designing a reduced-scale test, it is important to scale 
appropriately to capture, as nearly as practical, the conditions used for rating an assembly, namely the 
transmission of heat, the transmission of hot gasses, and the load-carrying ability of the test assembly 
during the period of fire exposure. 
Both the thermal and mechanical properties of the materials and components used in the test assembly are 
important to its performance in a standard fire test.  Likewise, the geometry of the test assembly, 
including steel member sizes, thickness of concrete slab, and overall geometric scale are determining 
factors in the thermal and structural performance of a test assembly.  Finally, the magnitude of the applied 
load that represents the maximum load condition affects the structural performance of the test assembly.  
The fire exposure must follow the prescribed time-temperature curve given in the ASTM E 119 Standard. 
4.1.2 Geometric Scaling of Floor Trusses 
The prototype truss, designated C32T5, has an overall length of 35 ft 8 in. and a distance between 
centerlines of the bolts at the end supports of 35 ft ¾ in.  The trusses for the “full-scale” test assembly had 
an overall length of 35 ft 0 in. as determined by the inside dimension of the reaction frame at the ULC fire 
test facility.  The overall length of the reduced-scale specimens is 17 ft 5½ in., also limited by the largest 