Test Results 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  63 
5.2 FIRE TEST OF ASSEMBLY NO. 2 
The fire resistance test of Assembly No. 2 was conducted at the (ULC) facility on August 11, 2004 under 
the observation of representatives of Underwriters Laboratories Inc., Underwriters Laboratories of 
Canada, NIST, and a member of the National Construction Safety Team Advisory Committee. 
The relative humidity of the concrete slab met the requirements prescribed in ASTM E 119. 
5.2.1 Test Observations 
Table 5–2 presents observations that were recorded during the conduct of the test.  All dimensions given 
are approximate since they were estimated by making observations through furnace viewports.  Times 
were generally recorded to the nearest one half minute.  The term “report” is used to describe a loud 
sound, which might be described as a “bang” or a “pop.”  Because these loud reports were often 
accompanied by observed movement of the metal deck and the dislodging of SFRM, it is assumed that 
the reports signaled explosive spalling of the concrete.  It was not possible to ascertain the exact location 
and extent of any spalling.  The reports heard during the test of Assembly No. 2 were generally not as 
loud as those heard during the test of Assembly No. 1. 
Table 5–2.  Test observations – Assembly No. 2. 
Test 
Time, 
min 
Exposed (E) or 
Unexposed (U) 
Surface Observations 
1 E & U Faint reports heard. 
1 E The SFRM began to discolor. 
3 E & U A faint report was heard.  
3 E SFRM over-spray on the steel deck began to fall when report was heard. 
5 E The steel deck began to deform east of the east bridging truss and west of the 
west bridging truss. 
10 E A buckle in the steel deck was observed. The buckle was located 1 ft west of 
the center deck support angle and ran in a north–south direction. The length 
of the buckle spanned from the north truss to the south truss. 
12 E The steel deck was bowing downward between the bridging trusses and the 
center deck support angle. 
15 E & U A faint report was heard.  
16 E & U A faint report was heard.  
18 E & U Reports became slightly louder. There were three reports in a row, approx. 5 
seconds apart. 
22 E & U Reports continued an d became slightly louder.  
22 E There was minor fall off of the SFRM on the top angle of the east bridging 
truss. The fall off was partial and did not result in bare steel being exposed. 
23 E & U Reports continued. 
30 E & U Reports continued. 
34 E Visual deformation of the top angles of bridging trusses was observed. 
36 E There was no visual buckling of the bridging truss web members. 