Chapter 1  
4  NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation 
• Test No. 4:  Reduced-scale, restrained conditions, ½ in. thick SFRM. 
The objective of the full-scale restrained test with ¾ in. thick SFRM, Test 1, was to determine the 
baseline fire resistance of the floor system with average as-applied SFRM thickness.  This test also 
demonstrated whether the fire resistance of such a system was significantly different from that of a system 
with the specified SFRM thickness of ½ in. 
The test conditions for Test 2, full-scale unrestrained test with ¾ in. thick SFRM, were the same as those 
for Test 1 except that the specimen was supported to allow thermal expansion and, therefore, represented 
the unrestrained test condition.  Results of this test allowed a determination of the unrestrained rating by 
test and, by comparing with the results of Test 1, a comparison of unrestrained ratings from both a 
restrained and unrestrained assembly test. 
Test 3 was a reduced-scale test which, other than scale, was the same as Test 1.  Thus, a comparison of 
the results of these two tests allowed an examination of whether test results are independent of test 
assembly scale. 
Test assemblies for Tests 1, 2 and 3 were fire protected in the same manner, with ¾ in. thick SFRM 
representing the average SFRM thickness in the impact and fire affected floors of WTC 2.  Measurements 
taken from photographs of the originally applied SFRM indicated that, while the SFRM thickness on 
main the trusses was approximately ¾ in., the thickness on the bridging trusses was approximately half 
that value (see NIST NCSTAR 1-6A).   Also, photographs indicated that the metal deck was sometimes 
sprayed and sometimes not.  For these three tests (Tests 1, 2, and 3), then, the main trusses were protected 
with ¾ in. thick SFRM, the bridging trusses with ⅜ in. thick SFRM, and the metal deck was not 
intentionally sprayed but was also not masked from overspray and thereby had, in most instances, at least 
a light covering of SFRM.  These conditions best represented the thickness of the SFRM as it was 
originally applied in the one-way slab areas. 
The objective of the test with the ½ in. SFRM (Test 4) was to determine whether or not there was 
adequate technical basis for the original SFRM specification.  As explained by the designer, it was not 
necessary to fire protect the bridging trusses in the one-way areas nor was it necessary to spray the metal 
deck (see NIST NCSTAR 1-6A).  Consequently, the Test 4 specimen had ½ in. thick SFRM applied to 
the main trusses and no SFRM applied to either the bridging trusses or the underside of the metal deck.  
Both the bridging trusses and metal deck were masked to prevent overspray as well. These conditions best 
represented the SFRM that was necessary, in the opinion of the designer, to provide the required level of 
passive fire protection.  
 