Chapter 4 
10  NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation 
dimension of the reaction frame used at the ULN fire test facility.  Thus, the span of the reduced-scale 
specimen was 17.46/35.00 = 0.50, or half that of the full-scale, or prototype, span. 
A structural element in flexure, such as the floor system under study, carries both shear force and bending 
moment.  The shear force, which governs the design of the truss web diagonals, is proportional to the 
magnitude of the uniform applied load on the slab multiplied by the span.  If the span is reduced by one 
half, then the maximum shear force is reduced by one half.  The bending moment controls the design of 
the truss chords and concrete slab and is proportional to the magnitude of the uniform applied load 
multiplied by the square of the span.  Thus, if the span is reduced by one half, the maximum moment 
would be one quarter that in the prototype. 
4.1.3 Concrete Slab Thickness 
The heating rate of the unexposed surface of the floor assembly depends on the thermal properties of the 
lightweight concrete, the thickness of the floor slab, and profile of the supporting metal deck.  Since the 
thermal properties of concrete are not easily changed, the slab thickness and deck must remain the same 
in the scaled specimen as in the prototype, or full-scale, specimen. 
4.1.4 Steel Truss Sections 
The structural response of a floor assembly subjected to an exposing fire depends on the rate at which the 
steel heats up since both the stiffness and strength of the steel decrease with increasing temperature.  The 
rate at which the steel heats up is, in turn, a function of the thermal properties of the SFRM which change 
with temperature, the thickness of the applied SFRM, and the thermal conductivity of the steel.  Since 
both the mechanical and thermal properties of steel and the SFRM are not easily changed, to preserve the 
rate at which the steel heats up and, therefore, the rate at which the steel loses its stiffness and strength, 
both the size of the steel sections and thickness of SFRM must be the same in the reduced-scale specimen 
as in the full-scale specimen. 
4.1.5 Applied Load 
The structural response of a floor assembly is also determined by the applied load, which the 
ASTM E 119 Standard defines as the maximum load condition allowed under nationally recognized 
structural design criteria.  For the correct structural response to be captured, the stresses in the reduced-
scale test assembly resulting from the applied load should match, as closely as practical, those of the 
prototype floor system. It is this principal upon which the loading for the reduced-scale tests was 
calculated. 
As discussed under geometric scaling, the shear force, which is a function of the applied load and the 
section properties of the members, determine the stresses in the truss web diagonals.  If the scale factor is 
one half, the applied load must be doubled to produce the same shear force.  Because the section 
properties are not scaled, doubling the magnitude of the applied load produces the same forces in the 
diagonals of the reduced-scale assembly as in the prototype.  The allowable compressive stress is 
governed by inelastic buckling and does not scale in exactly the same way, that is, the allowable 
compressive stress for the web diagonals in the reduced-scale assembly is greater than that for the web 
diagonals in the full-scale assembly.   