 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation 5  
Chapter 2 
ASTM STANDARD FIRE TEST 
The fire rating of structural materials and assemblies is generally determined through testing, and in the 
United States, such testing is frequently conducted in accordance with the ASTM International standard, 
ASTM E 119, “Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of Building Construction and Materials” 
(ASTM 2000).  This standard was first published in 1917 as a tentative standard, ASTM C 19, and was 
first adopted as ASTM E 119 in 1933.  Since its introduction, the test method has been modified and 
updated, although its essential character has remained unchanged. 
2.1 GENERAL DESCRIPTION 
The test methods described in ASTM E 119 prescribe a standard fire exposure for comparing the test 
results of building construction assemblies.  For the tests of floors and roofs, a test assembly is 
structurally loaded and the standard fire exposure is applied to the underside of the specimen.  The 
assembly is evaluated for its ability to contain a fire by limiting passage of flame or hot gasses, and 
limiting heating of the unexposed surface, while maintaining the applied load.  The assembly is given a 
rating, expressed in hours, based on these acceptance, or end-point, criteria.  Revisions to the 
ASTM E 119 Standard in 1971, introduced the concept of fire endurance classifications based on two 
conditions of support: restrained and unrestrained. 
2.2  RESTRAINT CONDITIONS 
According to Appendix A4 of ASTM E 119-73, a restrained condition is “one in which expansion at the 
support of a load carrying element resulting from the effects of fire is resisted by forces external to the 
element.”  In an unrestrained condition, the element is free to expand and rotate at its supports.  The 
Standard does not address how to achieve restraint at the assembly’s supports, nor does it specify, in the 
case of floor assemblies, the stiffness characteristics of the restraining frame used to support an assembly. 
The current standard describes a means to establish restrained and unrestrained ratings for floor 
assemblies from restrained test samples.  The conditions of acceptance are based on limiting passage of 
flame or hot gasses, limiting temperatures on the unexposed surface of the slab, and failure to sustain the 
applied load.  In addition, temperature limitations are placed on the main structural members.  The 
location of temperature measurements on the structural members is specified in the ASTM E 119 
Standard. 
2.3 CONDITIONS OF ACCEPTANCE 
The ASTM Standard Fire Test (ASTM 2000) is conducted by exposing a specimen to a standard fire 
controlled to achieve specified temperatures throughout a specified time period.  It is emphasized in the 
Standard that the fire exposure “is not representative of all fire conditions because conditions vary with 
changes in the amount, nature and distribution of fire loading, ventilation, compartment size and 
configuration, and heat sink characteristics of the compartment.”  The conditions of acceptance relate 