Floor Test Assemblies 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  43 
4.4 LOADING OF TEST ASSEMBLIES 
The test assemblies were loaded in accordance with ASTM E 119.  That is, a superimposed load was 
applied “to simulate a maximum load condition,” which was determined as “the maximum load condition 
allowed under nationally recognized structural design criteria” (ASTM 2000).  In this section, the analysis 
for this maximum load condition is given, and the procedures used to apply the computed loads are 
explained for both the full- and reduced-scale test assemblies.  The structural analysis and test loading 
procedure was performed by Wiss Janey Elstner & Associates (WJE) under sub-contract to Underwriters 
Laboratories Inc. 
4.4.1 Loading of 35 Ft Assemblies 
Table 4–14 details the demand-to-capacity ratio of key elements of the trusses for Assembly Nos. 1 and 2.  
Demand-to-capacity ratios for the original C32-T5 truss design are given in the last column and were 
computed from Laclede design calculation sheets (see Appendix G).   The compression web diagonal at 
the vertical strut was the limiting member with a demand-to-capacity ratio of 1.01.  The calculations 
indicate that the maximum load condition is achieved with a uniform load of 104 psf. 
The test load was applied to the assembly in a sequence that generally proceeded outwards from the 
center.  Concrete blocks, which had first been weighed, were placed between the truss lines starting at the 
midspan and working symmetrically to the east and west ends of the test assembly.  Next, empty water 
tubs were placed symmetrically outward to the ends of the span, alternating between the truss lines from 
the midspan.  Finally, concrete blocks were placed between the water tubs and the longitudinal edges of 
the assembly, again alternating along both edges, working symmetrically from midspan to the ends of the 
assembly.  The last set of blocks was placed as close as practicable to the water tubs to minimize bending 
of the cantilevered deck slab.  The water tubs were filled from the center of the assembly outward toward 
the edges.  The amount of water was calculated for each location to insure the same load was applied at 
each section since the weight of the concrete blocks varied slightly. 