 
NIST NCSTAR 1-6B, WTC Investigation  49 
Chapter 5 
TEST RESULTS 
The tests described herein were conducted in accordance with the Standard Test Methods for Fire Tests of 
Building Construction and Materials, ASTM E 119-2000a.  Results of all four fire resistance tests are 
presented in this chapter; each test is discussed separately. 
5.1 FIRE TEST OF ASSEMBLY NO. 1 
The fire resistance test of Assembly No. 1 was conducted at Underwriter Laboratories Toronto, Canada 
facility (ULC) on August 7, 2004 under the observation of representatives of Underwriters Laboratories 
Inc., Underwriters’ Laboratories of Canada, and NIST. 
The relative humidity of the concrete slab met the requirements prescribed in ASTM E 119. 
5.1.1 Test Observations 
Table 5–1 presents observations that were recorded during the conduct of the test.  All dimensions given 
are approximate since they were estimated by making observations through furnace viewports.  Times 
were generally recorded to the nearest minute.  The term “report” is used to describe a loud sound, which 
might be described as a “bang” or a “pop.”  Because these loud reports were often accompanied by 
observed movement of the metal deck and the dislodging of SFRM, it is asumed that the reports signaled 
explosive spalling of the concrete.  It was not possible to ascertain the exact location and extent of any 
spalling. 
Table 5–1.  Test observations – Assembly 1. 
Test 
Time, 
Min 
Exposed (E) or 
Unexposed (U) 
Surface Observations 
0.5 E There was slight discoloration of the SFRM on the west side of the assembly. 
7 E The east center steel deck seam began to separate. 
11 E The deck buckled west of the west bridging truss running in a north-south 
direction. 
14 E The east steel deck seam had a 3/8 in. opening 
16  The vertical member on the east bridging truss where it intersects the south 
main truss had buckled. 
17 E/U Reports heard with the SFRM deck over-spray falling simultaneously. 
19 E/U Same observation as 17 minutes. 
19 E The east steel deck seam had a 5/8 in. opening 
20 E/U Same observation as 17 minutes and could visually see deck moving 
simultaneously. 
21 E/U Reports becoming louder and more frequent. 
21 U The concrete was spalling near the west end of the assembly. 