Chapter 5



façade drawing for the north face has been created and is shown in Figure 5–13. The numbers on the left
side of the drawing indicate floors. Each number is associated with a short line that shows the location of
the floor slab for that particular floor. The locations of columns across the face are indicated by numbers
placed above the windows on the 21st floor. The windows associated with a given column are those to the
immediate right. By using the general notation x-yz, where x represents a floor, y a column number, and z
the letter for a particular window, it is possible to identify any window on the face. As examples, the
leftmost window on the 7th floor is identified as 7-42A, the 14th window from the left on the 15th floor is
denoted 15-44E, and the rightmost window on the 30th floor is 30-57C.

South Face

Figure 5–14 is a cropped photograph, taken from near the corner of Liberty Street and Church Street on
the morning of September 11, that shows the upper portion of the south face of WTC 7. Floor numbers
have been added for reference. The two buildings in the foreground are WTC 4 and WTC 5. These
buildings block views of WTC 7 below the 20th floor from this direction and demonstrate how difficult it
was to record images of the lower parts of this face of WTC 7.

The general appearance of the south face of WTC 7 for Floors 7 to 45 was the same as the north face.
(Compare Figure 5–14 with Figure 5–10 and Figure 5–11.) There are continuous sections of windows in
the center with reddish polished granite spandrel covers above and below. On either edge of the center
section windows, there are two windows framed by an area of tan colored granite.

Even though the appearances of the two faces were similar, details concerning column and window
placement differed. There were 45 contiguous windows in the center area of the south face, as contrasted
with the 63 contiguous windows per floor on the north face. The dimensions of the windows were the
same as on the north face, although, again, there was some modest variation in the width of some of the
windows.

The south side of the top two floors (46th and 47th) can be seen in Figure 5–8. The center area
corresponding to the contiguous window locations on other floors is recessed inward. There is a narrow
roofline at the base of the 46th floor that is connected to the top edge of the roof parapet by a sloping
curtain wall. The recessed area is also visible at the top of WTC 7 in Figure 5–14. In Figure 5–8, it can
be seen that the sloping curtain wall was broken into vertical four glass sections separated by frames.

The eastern edges of the 22nd and 23rd floors are just visible in Figure 5–14. The central window region
has the same appearance and composition as the corresponding floors on the north face, with a dark
horizontal band and two somewhat lighter bands immediately above and below.




104                                                                    NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation
