Chapter 5



floor, there were no other openings on the east face, with the exception of two doors located at the ends of
the three story mural that ran for a length of 33 m (108 ft 2 in.) and was centered on the face (Figure 5–16
and Figure 5–22). The northern door, hidden behind the mail truck in Figure 5–22, provided access to an
exterior store room behind the wall, while the southern door accessed a stairwell that connected to the
first four floors.




                                                   Figure 5–22. Cropped photograph of the lower
                                                   portion of the east face of WTC 7, taken shortly
                                                   after 2:00 p.m. on September 11th from near the
                                                   corner of Barclay Street and West Broadway.
                                                   The intensity levels have been adjusted.




Source: George Miller, New York City Transit Authority (NYCTA)

Figure 5–23 shows a façade drawing of the east face of WTC 7. The numbers indicate floor slab and
column locations. Since only single windows are present to the left of Columns 29 to 40, it is not
necessary to use letters to identify these windows. The pairs of windows on either end of a floor are
identified using “A” and “B.”

West Face

A view of the upper floors of the west face of WTC 7 is shown in Figure 5–24. The face has a waffle-like
appearance that is similar to the east face, and the 12 windows between the window pairs on either end
were configured identically to those on the east face. However, on the north edge of the west face, there
was one pair of windows with the same dimensions as the pairs on the north and south edges of the east
face, and on the south edge of the west face, there were two adjacent two-window groupings. The left
hand pair of these windows had a width of 2.74 m (9 ft 0 in.), and the right hand pair width was 3.35 m
(11 ft 0 in.). The arrangement of windows visible in Figure 5–24 was repeated as far down as the 7th
floor, except for the windows on the 22nd and 23rd floors. These were the same as on the east face.


112                                                                     NIST NCSTAR 1-9, WTC Investigation
